Julius Delahaije is the chief executive of SGA, a Nairobi-based security firm. He says East Africa has a very interesting mix of cultures and that rather than being a challenge, the business here is also an opportunity. He spoke to Maryanne Gicobi about his off-duty passion. -------------------------------------- What’s your off-duty passion? Going for game drives. My spouse and I visit national parks and conservancies to enjoy the wildlife, both big and small animals. We live next to Karura Forest in Nairobi and have the privilege of enjoying nature from our garden. We have three guard dogs that are also house pets We walk them in Karura Forest. What would you have been if you were not the chief executive of a security company today? Either a teacher or a university professor. One of the reasons I am here is because of my experience in running businesses in emerging and developing countries. I am driven by a desire to mentor people. I feel obliged to pass on to the next generation the experiences I have gained. What signifies your personal style? I have been described as being talkative and friendly but also consistent, transparent and persistent. My dress sense is formal but not old fashioned. When in jeans, it’s a stylish pair and not worn out. My mother taught that me it is important to dress decently. There is a time when I went for the Rhino Charge [wilderness motor challenge for charity] with friends and one time when I left my tent to go for a game drive, one of the ladies in my group asked; “Hey Julius, are you going to the office?” That gives you a sense of how I dress. How do you manage your wardrobe? I am quite organised with my own space in the wardrobe, away from my wife’s space. My suits, shirts, T-shirts and polo shirts are stored separately and colour coded. My mood and the weather determines what I wear, but the colour of my tie and that of my shirts must match, and the socks and tie should match the shirt and suit. Like today I am matching my black shoes with black socks. While in East Africa, where are you most likely to spend your Saturday afternoon? Sitting on the terrace of our balcony with a glass of good wine, watching nature and looking at birds and monkeys. Describe your best destination yet in East Africa? Quite a few actually. In Kenya, definitely the national parks, with the Meru National Park and the Aberdares topping the list, followed by Lake Turkana. We are expecting a baby so we are not travelling much now but in Uganda we would like to visit some national parks.   We would like to do a grand tour of Tanzania, starting at the coast — my wife and I love scuba diving, so we would love to visit Pemba and Shimoni in Kenya — then Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Serengeti. Do you have a must-visit list? I do. I have been travelling all my life and I am a Platinum Elite life member for KLM. I have travelled a lot in Asia, Europe, Africa, America... I have in fact lost count of the countries I have visited. My wife was born in Indonesia though she has Dutch nationality, so one of our top visits after the baby comes is to travel to Indonesia. On the list is Madagascar because of the variety of flora and fauna, and I definitely want to see the Victoria Falls. What is East Africa’s greatest strength? The opportunities. East Africa has a very interesting mix of cultures. We may see it as a challenge but it is also an opportunity. The nature and environment is fantastic and the government and people should be more aware of this and put in more effort to promote it in the right way. What is your best collection? Pictures taken by my wife. We have tonnes of wildlife photos. I also have two old cars in the Netherlands, a Jeep and a limousine with my name — Delahaije. It is an old French car brand. What Mercedes is to Germany and what Rolls Royce is to the UK, Delahaije was for France. Though I am Dutch, my name is French. One of the cars was made in 1950 and the other 1952, and both still run. What’s the most thoughtful gift you’ve received? The child we are waiting for with my wife and we have the opportunity to bring her up in Kenya. I think every day is a gift.   What’s the best gift you have given? That would be making people happy in circumstances that they were not expecting, especially where there is a huge need. It is very rewarding if you can help people out in difficult circumstances anonymously to make a difference in their lives without creating dependency. What big book have you read recently? A book on KPN, the giant Dutch telecommunications company. It is about cultural and business restructuring. In general, I like legal thrillers like those by John Grisham. Which film has impacted you the most? That would be Novecento 1900 — it is in Italian, and five-and-a-half hours long. It follows two childhood friends who grew up as close companions despite their class differences. However, they drift apart as adults, one embracing his landowning heritage and the other championing workers' rights. It is very intriguing and I would recommend it to everyone. What is never missing in your fridge? Good cheese, preferably real Dutch cheese. I also have white wine or a rose and sometimes champagne.  Bio Julius Delahaije, 59, was appointed chairman and chief executive of SGA Group in January 2017, to be in charge of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Ethiopia. He had joined the company in February 2016. Delahaije says he has always had “a passion for the ICT sector. “I have a great interest in software development, cybersecurity and other IT matters. The synergy between computers and communication devices has always intrigued me. This has been my driving force. Without technology, there is no security. Technology supplements human efforts and ensures maximum protection of one’s goods and valuables.’’ Prior to joining SGA, he was chief executive and co-owner of Linxtelecom and Linxdatacentre providing expertise in ICT security data center solutions in Russia, Central and Eastern Europe. He has over 30 years experience in international security and related business. He has worked as director at AT&T Capital Corporation, and manager at Philips International B.V. His international assignments took him to the US, Europe, South Africa and the Far East. Delahaije holds a Masters degree in Business Economics and Taxation Law from Tilburg University in the Netherlands. Considering his deep interest in security, Delahaije says he is dedicated to supporting sustainable safety and security for communities through the use of intelligent systems. SGA Security services include guarding, alarm response, cash-in-transit, fleet tracking, risk management, security, crime mapping and intelligence gathering. He says his focus as chief executive has always been to drive a proactive approach to security matters.   Lemon Valley Farm Estate is a serene getaway spot. Owner of hotel dies in Mogadishu blasts, 3 years after his father was killed in similar attack.