Eight years after the bombing that killed 21 and wounded 60 people at the United Nations building in Abuja, life was gradually returning to normal. Human traffic at the UN House was once again high and vibrant. The UN Resident Coordinator, Mr Edward Kallon, says the international community was getting over the calamity of August 26, 2011, blamed on the Boko Haram insurgents. Mr Kallon announced the big return in Abuja as the world celebrated the 73rd UN Day last month. “The 2018 UN Day is a very important day for the United Nations system in Nigeria as it underscores the excellent cooperation and partnership of the global agency and Nigeria over the years. “Indeed, this year’s UN Day also marks the UN family partial move back to the UN House. Parameter fencing “To the UN in Nigeria, the UN House is a symbol of the resilience of our extraordinary cooperation and partnership with the government and people of Nigeria,” he said The house, built by the Federal Government, was being occupied by several the UN agencies until the unfortunate bombing. “The 2011 bombing of the UN House was an attack against those who devoted themselves to serving UN values,” Mr Kallon said. On August 26, 2011 at 11am (local time), a car loaded with explosives broke through two security barriers and a driver detonated the bomb after crashing it into the UN reception area. The bomb caused devastation to the building’s lower floors, hosting the offices of about 400 UN employees. The Nigerian government undertook to reconstruct the sprawling house left in ruins. The main contractor was a reputable German construction company, Julius Berger Nigeria and the scope of the contract was to provide the latest level of security parameter fencing, capable of withstanding bomb blast as well as fortifying gates to the highest international standards   The Nigerian government in 2017 provided $28 million for the provision of security equipment and associated infrastructure. The new-look UN House boasts three police posts, body and baggage scanners and close circuit television cameras across the internal and external portions. The street of the UN House has also been restricted to the public, except for those having business in any of the UN agencies or in the numerous embassies, including the US, Egypt and Sudan. Mr Kallon commended the Federal Government and the people of Nigeria for their commitment to rebuild the UN House. The envoy also thanked the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) minister, Mr Mohammed Bello, for his personal commitment and support to rebuild the edifice that was destroyed by attackers. Stronger partnerships He expressed the hope that the return, which began with UNDP and Unicef, would inspire the staff to work better. The movement, Mr Kallon went on, would help the workers build stronger partnerships and a better future for the people of Nigeria. “Let us recommit ourselves, while celebrating the UN Day to make the world a better place for all, where nobody will be left behind,” he said Mr Bello described the UN Day celebration as significant as it marked the first gathering again at the Abuja building after the 2011 tragedy. The minister, who was represented by Mr Umar Jubril, a ministry official, said the reopening of the UN House represented the fulfilment of efforts to not only rebuild, but also make the complex better. “The UN building stands out as the symbol of our resilience and unbroken promises in addressing various challenges we are facing as a nation,” he said. Feel welcome Mr Bello congratulated the UN family on the return to the edifice and assured them of the FCT commitment on security of life and property of all staff and their families and the institution. “The FCT administration has worked to improve the security architecture in the territory to forestall reoccurrence of the last ugly incidence. “We have beefed up security presence in and around the premises and ensure surveillance around the area. “We also pledge our commitment to serve as a good host to the UN family and urge your staff to feel welcome in the FCT,” he said. The UN Staff Association president, Dr Noma Owens-Ibie, commended the efforts of the Federal government and FCT in restoring the glory of the UN House.   Chinese businesspeople threaten to leave over gang attacks. Resolution seeks to remove arms embargo and targeted sanctions imposed on Eritrea.