The films Veronica’s Wish and Bella have received the most number of nominations for this year’s Uganda Film Festival to be held on November 26-29 in Kampala. The Awards Gala Night is slated for November 30. Veronica’s Wish has been nominated in 11 categories; Best Cinematography, Best Costume (Production Design), Best Sound, Best Script, Best Feature Film, Best Actor (Housen Mushema), Best Actress (Nisha Kalema as Veronica), Best Post Production/Editing, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress (Malaika Sanyu as Bankia), and Best Supporting Actor (Simon Base Kalema). While Bella, produced and directed by Matt Bish got nine nominations for Best Cinematography, Best Costume (Production Design), Best Sound, Best Script, Best Feature Film, Best Actress, Best Post Production/Editing, Best Director, and Best Supporting Actress. Veronica’s Wish portrays a clash of love and terminal illness between two love birds. The drama, acted in English, was written by Nisha Kalema and directed by Rehema Nanfuka. Michael and Veronica are living their soulmate life and engaged to marry but their journey takes a drastic turn when Veronica gets hit by mysterious illness days to her wedding. She must choose between love and saving her life. Bella is a story of a homeless girl (played by Cindy Sanyu) who sings on the streets for food and money. Her musical talent is not appreciated because of her appearance. One day her life changes for good when she saves a famous former commercial sex worker from rape. She then embarks on her dream of becoming a superstar. Other films are The Agreement with four nominations, 94 Terror with six nominations, The Forbidden with three nominations and Malaika with two nominations. Others in the running for accolades are Slay Queens, Chains, Kikumi Kikumi and Deranged. Kemiyondo Coutinho’s Kyenvu is in competition for the Best Short Film award against Muraya Ni, The Surrogate, Bread Winner and Baby Bride. Those in competition for the Best Documentary award are; Your Music Your Voice, The Last Victim, The Invincible Labourers of Kampala, Waiting For Rain, and The Mineral Basket. The Best TV Drama award is being competed for by Mistakes Galz Do, Live Your Dreams, Taste of Time, and Antikale. World Tofauti, Super Mama, Sema, Lulu The Pearl Boxer, and The Bad Advantage are in competition for Best East African Film award. Sometimes in Yesterday, Omoye, Yellow The New Guy, Curse With Shadows, and It Has Killed My Mother are competing for the Best African Film award.   Veronica’s Wish has been nominated in 11 categories. As head of reform team since 2016, his goal has been to wean the AU off donor funding. Magufuli says the army is being deployed to defend the nation in its economic war.