Tanzania police say they have identified a house in an affluent neighbourhood of Dar es Salaam where tycoon businessman Mohammed Dewji was held for nine days following his abduction last month. Dar es Salaam Special Zone Police Commander Lazaro Mambosasa Monday told journalists that in their investigations, they identified a one-storey house in Mbezi Beach. The house is located less than 15km north of the luxury hotel in Oyster Bay where Mr Dewji, popularly known as Mo, was kidnapped on October 11. “The house belonged to the late Mwansasu. Its ownership was changed after his death. It is currently owned by his daughter,” said Mr Mambosasa. He did not disclose the identity of the woman but added that the house had been rented out to South African businessmen. The police chief added that the lease agreement for the house showed $1,500 as the monthly rental fee but that the owner was only paid $1,300 with the remaining $200 paid as commission to a taxi driver-cum-broker Twalibu Mussa. “Although the house looks posh, it seems it has been abandoned for a long time. Our investigations show that during his captivity, Mr Dewji was kept in the ground floor bedroom with his hands and feet tied with ropes,” said Mr Mambosasa. Mr Mambosasa said they are holding Mr Mussa who is believed to have close ties with the Mr Dewji's abductors, having helped the South African businessmen rent the house. He said Mr Mussa, who operates his taxi business from the Whitesands Hotel in northwest Dar es Salaam and just 6km north of Mbezi Beach, drove Mr Dewji's abductors to Ubungo bus terminal on the day Mo was found. Release The kidnappers dumped Mr Dewji at the Gymkhana Golf Club grounds, about 15km south from the house where he is believed to have been held, at around 2am on October 20 and escaped. They also abandoned the car linked to the kidnapping there. Mr Mambosasa said the police are holding 40 people over the incident. Mr Dewji was abducted in the early hours of October 11 at the luxury Colosseum Hotel in Oyster Bay where he had just arrived for a morning workout at the hotel's gym. Following his release, he told police that his abductors had a South African accent. He is the owner and chief executive of the multibillion-dollar Mohammed Enterprises Tanzania Ltd (METL Group).   Mohammed Dewji returned home after he was dumped by his kidnappers. The government says the move has been taken to support wildlife conservation. Rwanda's transport sector has nearly phased out 14-seater minibuses.