Smarting from nullification of presidential election results last year and eroding public confidence, the resignation of a half of the commissioners and graft claims, Kenya’s Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is to undergo reforms to fix the systemic challenges that affected its operations in past elections. The IEBC intends to push for legislative reforms, restructure its directorate and departments, vet senior staff members, streamline its procurement procedures, institute Hansard-style recording of its meetings and acquire its own premises to cut down on rent and other costs. According to Wafula Chebukati, the commission chairman, the IEBC is already shopping for an international firm to lead the reform process as the electoral body battles bad publicity arising from internal wrangles that saw four commissioners and the chief executive exit the office at the end of the last general election cycle. The commission has been under attack from politicians over procurement of electoral materials, particularly ballot papers and electronic voter identification devices, contracts for which the opposition said were handed to firms that have been accused of rigging elections elsewhere. However, Mr Chebukati is putting on a brave face amid concerns over the composition of the commission after four out of the seven commissioners resigned, saying steps have been taken to address the challenges that affected preparations for the last general election. Commissioners Consolata Maina, Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat resigned in a huff, accusing Mr Chebukati of high-handedness. But this could be a thing of the past as all plenary meetings will now be recorded to ensure transparency. Senior staff vetting has been on the cards since the Electoral Commission of Kenya was disbanded after the 2007-8 post-election violence to make way for the IEBC. The commission will work with state agencies like the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Kenya Revenue Authority. The commission seeks to buy an office block to ensure it has full control of voting materials and devices and distribution during elections. “In relocating the IEBC head office, we seek to bring the ICT primary data centre, warehouses, offices and conference facilities under one roof,” said Mr Chebukati in a speech delivered in a meeting with Kenyan editors last month by Commissioner Prof Abdi Guliye.   Our elections do become more organised by the year but our mistrust continues to grow. Govt grapples with how to safeguard cashewnut farmers from unsustainably low prices. MPs are using the lifting of the presidential age-limit as a campaign issue.