The definition of expectation by Google is a strong belief that something will happen. When I think of the word, I usually think about relationships. At most of the bridal showers I have attended, as experiences are described and shared, the advice that is invariably given is, “Do not enter the marriage with expectations.” And by the way, why don’t men have these things? We “prepare” women as if they were entering the marriage by themselves and the man was born fully equipped. Anyway, I digress. Let’s get back to expectations and youth participation in politics. A friend informed me that she is vying for an elective seat in 2022. She is currently doing the groundwork on her campaign. She is articulate, has an initiative in the community and is passionate about her county. I can certainly envision her in a political leadership role. Then she asked a difficult question, “Where am I supposed to get the money from? Because I know in our politics you have got to have the money… I need ideas on fundraising.” She went to the extent of asking veteran female politicians for advice and several told her, “If you start connecting with your community now, people will see you as a leader and vote for you. It won’t be based on money, it doesn’t have to be. Just have a vision. That is all you need.” This sounds too good to be true; in fact, it is the Kumbaya response. The kind of response that you get when you are in dire need of help and when you ask an acquaintance for help their response is, “Pray.” When we talk about political mentorship, or passing of the baton, politicians tend to dodge the question. They talk about growing up in poverty, walking several kilometres to get to school and then hey presto: Now I am a successful CEO. The stories of Kenyans who enter political leadership tend to miss a number of steps. What about those outliers who made it by building trust in their community? True, they are there, we still remember the stories of a watchman who campaigned on his bicycle and is now a Member of County Assembly. Or we remember the Igembe South Member of Parliament who was 24 at the time of running a campaign with almost no funding and still won. Let’s be realistic, if any of those two were to fail in that community – people would not put their trust in the hands of “their own” again. I had a conversation with a Member of County Assembly and we were talking about voter bribery. And she was frank enough to describe how for years she had been working to get this seat through engaging the community and shunning people who chose to bribe their way through, and she was never voted in. Last year she fundraised as much as she could to bribe her voters and now she is in. It worked! The political terrain is rough going. Elections are becoming more and more expensive and there are certain expectations that voters have from their leaders as these trends continue to cement themselves as cultural norms. And still we expect potential political leaders to act completely at variance from the culture around them – as though they lived in a vacuum. Nerima Wako-Ojiwa is executive director at Siasa Place. Twitter: @NerimaW   Addis Ababa advances in its space science programme. Even as they celebrate Abiy, the Oromo youth are still frustrated with life under the EPRDF.