Nigeria’s quest to improve power supply will receive $1.57 billion donor support. The World Bank, African Development Bank (AfDB), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and French Development Agency have approved the fund aimed at increasing the electricity supply in Africa's most populous country. Nigeria’s current electricity situation continues to be problematic, with the highest generation put at about 4,000 megawatts, far below the national need. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, the inability of Nigeria to meet the electricity requirement has adversely affected industrial growth and also caused the closure and relocation of many companies. Supervisory control The fund is for the transmission, rehabilitation and expansion programme (TREP) of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) for an initial 20,000 megawatts (MW) in the next four years. TCN Managing Director Usman Mohammed said the programme has been approved by the federal government. "It was designed to steadily grow, stabilise and modernise Nigeria’s transmission network to take more electricity from generation companies (Gencos) to distribution networks," said Mr Mohammed. TCN has hosted a workshop to review the plan to procure and install new supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) and electricity management system (EMS) for the national grid. Brand new Mr Mohammed disclosed that TCN was able to attract the funds from the multilateral agencies because it had improved its management. “In the last one year, we have been able to deliver a 20-year least-cost transmission plan, present a generation adequacy report which is part of the requirement of the function of system operation, and we have been able to also audit TCN from 2010 to 2016 and now working to deliver the 2017 audit,” he added. Mr Mohammed further disclosed that TCN had set aside a $65 million to procure the brand new SCADA and EMS, adding that the facility would help it manage the grid efficiently.   Scholar says agreement surrenders Juba's sovereignty Contingent of 85 officers is the first female team to be sent on a foreign mission.