The Mercado, a contemporary Mexican restaurant and bar in Nairobi, is still creating a stir after its opening late last year. The restaurant was fully booked when we arrived at 7pm on a recent Friday. We did not have a reservation, but a pleasant hostess seated us at a table reserved for a later arrival. One of the first things I noticed was the decor — swinging bench seats suspended from the ceiling, light fixtures shaped like bottles, and models of vintage cars decorating the walls. In the centre is a curved bar counter, which was full. The balcony areas are surrounded by glass walls from where you can watch the city at night. Rock music was playing, complementing the high-energy atmosphere. Mercado, meaning “marketplace” in Spanish, uses locally produced vegetables, fruit and spices to create authentic Mexican dishes. The menu is divided into “big plates” and tapas, smaller plates of savoury appetisers. Embracing technology, the servers enter meal orders into handheld tablets and use earphones to communicate with the kitchen. Meals are served on dark stone slabs and bowls that bring out the bright food colours. We selected several tapas to share. The Guacamole Molcajete dip was thick and creamy, served with chewy nacho chips. The Mayan Chicken Tamales is maize meal dough filled with lightly spiced minced chicken, steamed inside a banana leaf and accompanied by a red mole sauce of 25 ingredients. They were delicious.   From the quesadillas, we chose the Fish Ajo, which had a crisp, fresh taste from a seasoning of parsley, olive oil and garlic. In a nod to local dishes, the Taco selection has a plantain option with a peppery chipotle mayonnaise. From the tostadas menu, we had the Chicken Tinga — pulled chicken cooked in a mild chipotle chilli sauce. Grated cheese, cool sour cream and chopped lettuce balanced this mildly spicy dish.   Tapas are priced between Ksh600 ($6) and Ksh990 ($9.9), and come with four dipping sauces including a very hot chilli sauce. The other starters include salads and soups like Wild Mushroom, Pumpkin Shrimp and Black Bean. The Tia Maria tomato soup is named in honour of a Mexican innkeeper who inspired the restaurant concept.Among the main courses, priced between Ksh890 ($8.9) and Ksh2,350 ($23.5), I tried some lesser known dishes. The boneless Chicken Roulade is stuffed with spinach seasoned with Mexican spices. The slow-cooked Costilla Beef Ribs come with a peanut and chilli sauce. For standard fare, they have steak medallions, lamb chops and seafood dishes of grilled prawns, tilapia and red snapper. There are also vegetarian, vegan, and gluten-free meals, and a Jain Menu of dishes without eggs or root vegetables. The beverage menu has a variety of Mexican cocktails including five types of mojito and eight kinds of margarita, fruit punches and mocktails served by the glass or pitcher. You can also custom-make your own cocktail. The Horchatas drink of chilled rice and milk beverages flavoured with mango and strawberry is popular. Or you can keep it simple with a fresco of water infused with cucumber and fruits. I chose the Tres Ledges dessert, a chilled sponge cake with three types milk and a fruit topping, served in a glass jar. Cool and sweet, it literally melts in your mouth. The Chocolate Bomba brownie comes highly recommended, and the Churros — fried doughnuts with chocolate sauce and cream — are irresistible. Mercardo is open for lunch and dinner every day, and they have a Sunday brunch from 10am to 3.30pm. I wished we could have stayed longer, but we had to make space for the next guests. An evening well spent.   Citizens express fears that the current amendments may be misused by criminals. Tanzania President Magufuli appoints key proponent of a new constitution to top party position.