We called him Veteran. He didn’t mind the nickname. It was the highest homage we could pay him. With three decades in the classroom, Teacher Ndeche was the oldest and longest-serving member of the teaching staff in our school. His looming retirement brought with it a cloud of sorrow. For the past six months, we had known that Veteran was leaving after an uninterrupted 14 years of teaching history and music in our school. While other teachers had come and gone, veteran had remained untouched. Until the retirement letter arrived. Through the staffroom grapevine, we learnt about his terminal leave. Around that same time, Ms Lolo, fresh from college, arrived. She was Veteran’s replacement.Veteran jovially welcomed her and called her “my apprentice.” “My apprentice must know everything I have learnt in 30 years,” he declared, poring over files with the awe-struck Lolo during the handing-over process. He showed her his marks book, notes and reading material. As she prepared lesson plans and schemes of work, he watched in order to check her competence. “You can never tell if these young folk know anything, but my apprentice is different,” he said approvingly, waving the schemes in the air. The principal took Veteran’s looming departure as an opportunity to extort money by making it compulsory for all 15 teachers to contribute Ksh1,000 ($10) for the farewell party. “This man deserves our greatest respect and highest honour,” the principal announced, holding out the contribution form. Veteran’s solo verses had won first place for the past five years at the National Drama Competition giving our school national fame. His achievements were featured in the entertainment section of Daily News. Meanwhile, the school truck moved veteran’s belongings from the three-bedroomed teacher’s house he had lived in to a small bedsitter at the nearby shopping centre. The farewell party in the dining hall was the biggest event in the school’s history. Parents, students and teachers came to bid farewell to Veteran. They sang, danced and ate. The speeches were long and flowery. Speakers heaped effusive praise and glowing tributes on Veteran, who sat at the high table, smiling and soaking up the attention. The drama club presented a moving panegyric on Veteran’s selflessness that kept him in school over the holidays and how he utilised prep time to teach extra lessons. The rendition left many wet eyed. Even the regional education secretary sent a congratulatory message noting Veteran’s long and unmatched service to the government. The climax was the presentation of gifts. The principal donated a luminous wall clock that couldn’t have cost a shilling over Ksh1,000 ($10). “Teachers are eternal keepers of time. This will tell you when your life lessons are over,” he said. We laughed dutifully. Senior teachers had settled on a white water dispenser with a cold and hot tap. “In retirement, you need regular hydration,” said Mr Ajanta, the chemistry teacher. On behalf of the junior teachers, I presented him with a copy of Margaret Craven’s I Heard the Owl Call My Name. The book is about a character whose death was foretold by an owl’s hoot, according to traditional beliefs. “Thank you,” he said, stuffing the book into his pocket. Afterwards, the principal ordered a dozen photos from the event to be put up on the school’s noticeboard. By end of the second week, the excitement had begun to fade. By the third week, we cleared Veteran’s pigeonhole, burnt his old notes and Ms Lolo took over his corner. We took his sticky notes off the walls and struck his name from the duty roster. Even the pictures on the noticeboard were fading and curling at the edges. Then, during a tea break on a sunny Wednesday morning, a month after the party, a shadow fell across the staffroom floor. Veteran stood at the door, smiling broadly. We all scrambled up to welcome him. “Karibu Mzee. It has been so empty without you,” Mr Ajanta, said pumping Veteran’s hand vigorously. He sat down and we lined up to shake his hand. We bombarded him with questions about retirement, and he smiled at our curiosity with a grandfatherly indulgence. “Everyone should look forward to it! I now have all the time in the world,” he said. We groaned in envy. Then the bell for classes rang and Veteran instinctively rose. Realising his mistake, he sat down, chuckling. “Old habits,” he muttered. No one asked him why he had come back. When we came back from our lessons, we found him still in the staff-room cradling an old newspaper. Over lunch, he regaled us with tales of visits to places that teaching had denied him from going to. He talked of sandy beaches, national parks and mountaineering. Then, he turned to Ms Lolo. “I am happy you settled so well into the system. But from one your schemes, I noted you missed a history lesson. I never missed any lesson in all my 33 years as a teacher.” Looking embarrassed, Ms Lolo apologised. An uncomfortable silence followed, which was shattered by the arrival of the principal crowing in delight at the sight of Veteran. The two left and we heard them laughing uproariously in the principal’s office. At eight the following morning, Veteran was already in the staffroom. He had taken Ms Lolo’s chair and she had to get another one from the Form One class. No one asked him what he was doing in school so early. Before the morning sessions were over, Veteran had found a dozen mistakes in Ms Lolo’s lessons plans, and even more flaws in her notes. Ms Lolo left school before lunch, citing a mild headache. “In my days, we taught even with headaches,” Veteran said. The other teachers grabbed their notes and left hurriedly for their classes. Those without lessons found something to do outside the staffroom. Veteran was left alone. The principal didn’t appear that day. The following week, Veteran was firmly back in the corner he had colonised all his years at the school. Ms Lolo started working from the library. Veteran’s daily programme involved scanning old newspapers, redrawing schemes of work and skimming through past examinations papers. He walked to the kitchen to chat with the cooks and the gateman, then went to the classrooms and peeked at the through the windows. He would then come back to the staffroom complaining about how things had got worse since he left. The staffroom banter was gone. Veteran’s attempts to start a conversation died against our lacklustre response. On a Wednesday afternoon, Veteran inspected the timetable and turned to Mr Ajanta who was busy typing on his i-Pad. “The timetable says you are supposed to be in class. You are stealing from the government,” he said. Mr Ajanta rose angrily and stormed out. The rest of us sat with our heads down. Later, Veteran wandered around the office and kitchen block and joined the guard at the gate. That evening, an unsigned notice appeared on the staffroom board saying that only authorised members were allowed in. The same day, the gateman received revised school rules stating that only teachers or parents should be allowed into the school. On Friday mid-morning, we were in the staffroom when we heard Veteran’s voice raised in anger as he engaged the gateman in a heated argument. After almost an hour of shouting, cursing and yelling, the noise stopped. In the evening, as I left for home, the gateman stopped me. “This is for you,” he said handing me a small parcel. I opened it. It was the book I had given to Veteran. At the back were two words written in Veteran’s careful handwriting.“It did.” We never saw him again.   Securing $15.5b will be the toughest challenge as countries turn to Beijing. The airline said in March that the 787 Dreamliner will be its flagship aircraft.