Madagascar’s President Hery Rajaonarimampianina was Monday expected to name a new prime minister following the resignation of Olivier Mahafaly Solonandrasana Mr Solonandrasana tendered his resignation on Monday morning in respect of a May 25 courts order. The Constitutional Court had ordered the nomination of a new prime minister by June 12. “The PM and the current government must leave office by June 5, 2018 at the latest,” said a court ruling. Succession principles “I am democratic. I respect the peaceful succession principles, the law in force and the republican values,” he stated at his office in Mahazoarivo, Antananarivo, accompanied by his close associates. Mr Solonandrasana wished the country a peaceful development. The embattled President Rajaonarimampianina received him at the State House of Iavoloha a few hours later, and said his government would remain in office until their successors were appointed The court also ordered the formation of a government of national unity, with “a consensus prime minister” within seven days of the ruling. Three nominees Madagascar has been rocked by violent protests since April 21, that initially sought to oppose new electoral laws the opposition said were crafted to bar their candidates from participating in this year's elections. Only the opposition has the right to propose three PM candidates, according to the court’s decision. The opposition on Saturday condemned the rejection of its three nominees for a “consensus” prime minister, who it hoped would calm the crisis sparked by the controversial electoral laws. “We nominated lawmakers Christine Razanamahasoa, Roberto Tinoka and Hanitriniaina Razafimanantsoa to be prime minister, but they were all rejected by (President) Hery Rajaonarimampianina,” said opposition parliamentarian Arnaud Tody during a rally protest in front of the Antananarivo city hall.    The army and the police demand quick solution to pre-election dispute President Farmajo is determined to complete the process ahead of schedule. Maria and Consolata Mwakikuti, who were joined at the abdomen, become minor celebrities last year