American jazz bassist and singer-songwriter Richard Bona will headline the 11th edition of the Johnnie Walker Jazz Safari to be held at the Speke Resort Munyonyo in Kampala on June 30. Cameroon-born Bona is one of the world’s best bassists, with a distinctive style; a mix of jazz, afro-beat, bossa nova, pop and funk. A multi-award winner, Bona has released eight albums that include Scenes from My Life, Reverence, Munia: The Tale, The Ten Shades of Blues, Bonafied, Heritage and Tiki, which was nominated for a Grammy award in 2007 in the Best World Music Album category. Bona has played with big African stars like Manu Dibango and Salif Keita. He has toured the world and recorded with Pat Metheny, Harry Belafonte, Quincy Jones, Herbie Hancock, Chaka Khan, Jacques Higelin, Shankar Mahadevan, Tito Puente, Chucho Valdès, Mike Stern, David Sanborn, Kenny Garrett, Joe Sample, Harry Connick Jr, Raul Midon, Branford Marsalis, Bobby McFerrin, and Sadao Watanabe, among others. This year’s jazz festival will feature two separate events; the Johnnie Walker Jazz Safari in June, followed by the Johnnie Walker Soul Safari in December. Festival founder Tshaka Mayanja said, “This year is about doubling the fun for jazz lovers, which is why we are having two separate festivals. With Bona performing, you can be sure it is going to be absolutely riveting.” Local stars Kaz Kasozi, BlackRoots Unlimited featuring Mayanja, Michael Kitanda, Tony Trumpet and Aloysious Migadde will share the stage with Bona. Tickets to the Jazz Safari are going for Ush130, 000 ($33.5) for individuals, and a table of 10 will be Ush3 million ($775). Since 2011, the Jazz Safari has supported the Rotary Clubs of Uganda for causes including farming and breast cancer, and, starting last year, a project at Kampala School for the Physically Handicapped. Through friends and partners in England and Disc Manufacturing Services, an ICT centre, complete with specialised equipment for disabled children, and valued at more than $66,000, will be set up at the school.   Mnangagwa's spokesman says president has been taken to safety after the incident. Ethiopian leader Abiy Ahmed escapes grenade attack, several injured.