The finale of this year’s Collective Rw Week of Fashion will be held at the Radisson Blu and Convention Centre in Kigali, and will feature the duo high- profile British designer duo Catherine Teatum and Rob Jones, famous for their London-based luxury label Teatum Jones, which won the prestigious International Woolmark Prize for Womenswear 2017. In its third edition, the week-long fashion extravaganza will kick off on July 1. Collective Rw Week of Fashion has evolved from a catwalk show to showcasing the creative talent in Rwanda. At the second edition last year, world renowned South African designer Laduma Ngxokolo and seven local designers showcased their designs at the Kigali Conference and Exhibition Village ballroom. Over 500 people attended the event, including First Lady Jeanette Kagame and her daughter Ange Kagame. This year’s edition will feature House of Tayo, Inzuki, Sonia Mugabo, Haute Baso, Moshions, Amizero, and the international fashion house Teatum Jones. The event’s objective is to promote locally made designs under the Made in Rwanda campaign to attract local, regional and international fashion designers, models and other technical personnel to build a regional and internationally collaborative platform, showcasing authentic homemade designs to boost the fashion market and sector. The event is organised by Collective Rwanda, a group of five young fashion designers — Matthew Rugamba, Sonia Mugabo, Teta Isibo, Linda Mukangonga and Moses Twahirwa. VIP tickets will cost Rwf45,000 ($52) at the gate, and will includes complimentary food and beverage service, front row seats and access to the after party. Preferred seating tickets will cost Rwf30,000 ($34) which include a free beer, second and third row seats and access to the after party; regular tickets will cost Rwf20,000 ($23) and will include general seats and access to the after party. The early bird ticket offers include the preferred seating tickets at a cost of Rwf20,000 ($23) and regular tickets at Rwf10,000 ($11).   Securing $15.5b will be the toughest challenge as countries turn to Beijing. The airline said in March that the 787 Dreamliner will be its flagship aircraft.