Mr Gitagama joined NMG in September 2007, as the Group Finance Director from Kenya Breweries Ltd, where he had held a similar position. The Nation Media Group (NMG) has appointed Mr Stephen Waithaka Gitagama as its new Group Chief Executive Officer with effect from Thursday. Mr Gitagama, who has been the acting chief executive since February 1, replaces Mr Joe Muganda, who had served in the position from July 2015. “The Board of Nation Media Group PLC is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr Stephen Waithaka Gitagama as the Group Chief Executive Officer of the company, with effect from 7th June 2018,” said a notice signed by Group Company Secretary James Kinyua. Mr Gitagama joined NMG in September 2007, as the Group Finance Director from Kenya Breweries Ltd, where he had held a similar position. A Certified Public Accountant of Kenya, Mr Gitagama also holds a Master of Business Administration and a Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting) from the University of Nairobi. Digital pltforms He is a director of Monitor Publications Limited in Uganda and Mwananchi Communications Limited in Tanzania, the NMG’s subsidiary companies. He is also a director of PDM (Holdings) Limited. Mr Gitagama is expected to steer the group through its ongoing shift to digital media platforms. Under his watch, the company has announced a Ksh150 million ($1.5 million) investment in a new digital publishing platform to be commissioned in the next six months. The system called Newscycle Solution is the most popular digital platform globally, used by 750 media houses. Mr Gitagama received the news of his appointment while in western Kenya, where he is spearheading the company’s corporate social responsibility activities. He was at Kajulu Primary School in Kisumu County, where he donated textbooks to the institution. On Wednesday, he also held meetings with Kisumu Governor Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o and his Kakamega counterpart, Mr Wycliffe Oparanya, who congratulated him on his confirmation as the new NMG chief. Prof Nyong’o welcomed the appointment, saying it “marks the beginning of co-operation between NMG and my government”. —Reported by George Omondi, Gaitano Pessa, Justus Ochieng and Benson Amadala   "I will not go back on my word. Our mandate ends in 2020," says the President. Khartoum out to reconcile neighbouring warring factions