On June 14, Kenya unveiled a Ksh3 trillion ($30 billion) budget. After servicing the country’s huge debt, 60 per cent of the remaining budget will go into recurrent expenditure, a huge chunk of which will be swallowed by the public wage bill, leaving only 40 per cent for development. According to the Auditor-General, about a third of the development budget is stolen or misused every financial year. Independent experts say the sum lost this way is more than half of the development budget. A further chunk of the money is underutilised or returned to the Treasury. Therefore, only a tiny fraction of the budget actually goes to development. Critics of the hysterical Africa Rising narrative are accused of being ideologically driven and thus incapable of seeing reality. Well, the numbers above show which side of the debate is blinded by ideology and which has been sobered up by grim reality. Eminent cartoonist Gado, captures the unhealthy relationship between the budget and the common citizen. The cartoon, captioned, “Paying Through the Nose,” depicts an impoverished, bedridden citizen with a tube connecting his nose to a briefcase held aloft by a well-fed bureaucrat. The cartoon alludes to the heavy taxation citizens endure in order to fund the budget. For instance, in this budget, essential goods are taxed, paper for textbooks is taxed, fuel is taxed, use of roads will be taxed through tolls, etc. This is, of course, in addition to income tax. So here is what is profoundly tragic about the African post-colonial state: Most of the revenue generated by the common mwananchi through sweat and blood goes into funding the obscene opulence of wenyenchi. Hyperbole? Hardly. A huge chunk of the budget, as the numbers cited above show, will go into private pockets, either by way of extortionist wages for state officials or through theft. In the Goldenberg scam, a mind-blowing Ksh100 billion ($1 billion) was stolen. The Anglo-Leasing scam left a budget hole worth Ksh50 billion ($500 million). The first NYS heist carted away Ksh3 billion ($30 million), the second, Ksh10 billion ($100 million). Other recent scams at the Kenya Cereals and Produce Board, the Ministry of Health, Kenya Pipeline Company, the National Land Commission, and so on ad nauseam, have swallowed billions. And as if such unconscionable thieving were not enough, the minister of security has unveiled a racket involving importation of contraband sugar laced with harmful substances. The minister disclosed that trade in contraband goods was controlled by powerful cartels, and admitted that tackling the untaxed and hugely lucrative underground trade was a dangerous undertaking, even to himself. The extortionist wages, and the proceeds from illegal trade and corruption, go into funding a parallel private state inhabited by a small minority. This minority lives in fabulous mansions or in exclusive gated communities. When sick, they go to private hospitals. Their children attend prohibitively expensive private schools. They shop in malls here and abroad. To navigate the potholed roads, they travel in multimillion-shilling SUVs or use personal helicopters, as is now the rage. Private firms collect their garbage, which is then dumped in slums. Their neighbourhoods are well lit. They have personal bodyguards. Private firms secure their homes. If these individuals are in government, they are provided with armed police guards. Out of a small national police force, 12,000 police officers are assigned to guard Kenya’s state officials. Now contrast the affluence of the private state with the decadence of the public one. In the Eastlands area of Nairobi, citizens periodically walk down roads flooded with human waste. Their open spaces are dumpsites. In the slums, the streets are dark and deadly. In the villages, children learn under trees. When famine struck last year, the government had to be urged by the Catholic clergy to pause its re-election campaign and attend to the disaster. In these God-and government-forsaken suburbs, slums and villages, people live in a Hobbesian state in which life is “nasty, brutish and short.” In Sweden or Finland, citizens are heavily taxed, but they do not complain because they can see where their taxes go. They have excellent public transport systems. They live in safe, sanitary neighbourhoods. They have access to excellent public health systems and schools, etc. The African post-colonial state is in reality two worlds in a parasitic relationship. The public state is maintained for the sole purpose of funding a parallel private one. The thousands of Africans willing to die in the Mediterranean Sea are those who refuse to continue slaving away in order to fund parallel private states. Tee Ngugi is a social and political commentator based in Nairobi.   Peace will not be sustained merely on the basis of a bilateral deal between the two rival President Museveni orders army to guard lawmakers.