The night was clouded with fog and mist, the remnants of a rain that had relentlessly soaked the earth all week. He was wearing a jacket with an inner lining of imitation fur, so soft that he often found himself stroking it. His shoes were beginning to pinch, and his alcohol-induced buzz was fading. He should have had vodka instead of beer on such a night. A general feeling of dissatisfaction had nagged at him all year, and this was why instead of taking a taxi or a matatu home, or even waiting for one of his friends, he had just slipped out of the bar. Ahead, he could see a light flashing, reflecting off the cars driving past it. Coming to the branch in the road, he saw one of those uniquely third-world problems, a neon flashing light announcing bad governance and unfortunate electoral decisions. All along the lane the street lights were shorting. Not just one streetlight twinkling in the dark, but the whole row as far as he could see. Without a second thought, he turned into the lane. He passed under the first light and the bright flash hurt his eyes. It forced him to look down and take note of his scruffy shoes, the leather worn away on the left side. A mall-rat scurried away nibbling at something, its little moustache flashing silver. The light flashed and flashed again and in concert they all flashed down the street in a cascade of white. “Hey there.” He turned towards the voice. In the next flash of light he took note of the tee-shirt clinging to her chest and the skirt stopping just where her thighs began. The high heels and heavy make-up proclaimed her a practitioner of the oldest profession. “Hello,” he replied, in a voice wary and weary. After all, he had had this kind of adventure before. It always ended the same way, with the pleasure of a few moments seeming to leak something out of his essence so that he felt emptier at the end, devoid. “I’ve seen you before.” “I really don’t think..” “No, not you, not exactly…” as she said this she seemed shaken by mirth, her hand running to her mouth to cover up something bubbling and escaping, her eyes lighting up, twinkling in the flash of the lights that passed over them every few seconds, throwing her face now into shadow and now into light, changing her. “Sorry, I just realised how that sounded. I don’t mean you, I mean men who look like you, men who feel the way you feel.” “How do I look like I feel?” “You look like a man searching for anger, for a wrong committed, but unable to find even that because you’re tired. Too tired to believe that anger can solve anything, too tired to believe that there’s anything more in life, too tired even to see how damn beautiful I look under these twinkling lights.” “I am very tired.” “I know. You need to remember the magic of life, to experience something you never have before and realise as its happening that it’s something you will never have again.” “Let me guess, I can find the answers to life between…” “Are you serious? Are you even listening to me?” Suddenly all the girlishness about her blew away. Now the lights playing and flashing on her face, the illumination and darkening of the street revealed the chiselled lines on her face, angular and determined. A weapon made to cut through wind and lies, made for a warrior or a goddess. “Come,” she said quietly. He was compelled to obey, stopping to rub his eyes to relieve some of the pain from the constant flashing. “My brother, I am going to tell you something that you don’t deserve to hear, show you something that you’ve been too blind to see. What you do with it is up to you.”He figured that this was not the usual transaction. With a sideways nod, she indicated a spot on the ground and he sat down. She sat next to him and looked at the lights as she began to talk. “You look lost, but we are all lost and that’s ok. Yet you’re walking down this street and there are 15 streetlights lining it. I’ve had time to count them on other nights waiting on this road. Each of those bulbs is strong enough to make a dent in the light of a waning sun, and today they flash, one after another and all together. Each of those lights is like a camera flash aimed at you. Do you see how hypnotic they are, waves of light. Look at them, I mean really look up and you’ll see that until the light flashes there is nothing around it. That when it does flash you can see leaves and trees, as if the light itself is creating this tiny world around it. A world that’s dead before we can properly register it. Do you see it? Do you see them? These worlds living for a second of our lives but full of beauty and so fragile. Do you see?” “Yes.” “This happens around you and it won’t happen again. Tomorrow the lights will be fixed. Not even our government can allow something as dangerous as this to live more than one night. And you walk through it and look down at your shoes. Just look.” She took his hand eagerly and just as he saw what she saw, the light creating the worlds, his view became hazy and soft around the edges. He started from his sleep woken by the flashing of the lights. He knew what had happened, he’d heard enough about this type of drug to not be surprised when he found his wallet gone and his phone missing. There was a small pang for the loss of his jacket. Still, he decided to think about his losses later. For now, he’d just look up at those streetlights flashing on and off, playing on his features, which had settled into a peaceful smile. Are you an unpublished aspiring writer? You may send your 1500-word fiction short story to eastafrican@ke.nationmedia.com   Citizens express fears that the current amendments may be misused by criminals. Tanzania President Magufuli appoints key proponent of a new constitution to top party position.