In a bid to find out what makes older hotels stand the test of time, I embarked on a culinary journey to the nearest “old restaurant” I could find — Hotel Chez Lando. Hotel Chez Lando is located at the heart of the bustling Remera business suburb in Kigali, next to the Remera roundabout. The hotel was founded in the 1980s by prominent Rwandan businessman and politician Lando Ndasingwa and his Canadian wife Hélène Pinsky, who were both killed in the 1994 Rwandan Genocide against the Tutsi. Chez Lando is an international standard three-star hotel with accommodation, catering, lovely garden views and other facilities. The hotel’s exterior is made of fired red clay bricks, giving it an old-world charm. However, the interior design was rather drab in comparison with the outside. The restaurant’s service is in need of improvement. It took some time before the attendants came to take my order. I settled for baked fish with mushroom soup and mizuzu (fried plantain). The order took close to 30 minutes to arrive at the table. The baked fish was fresh and tender on the inside and slightly crusty on the outside. It was glazed with cheese, which made for a filling meal. The mushroom soup was served warm. It was thick and savoury and tasty. The mizuzu was hot, almost burning my tongue, but was cooled down by the mushroom soup, creating a melange of sweet and salty tastes.   Chez Lando also offers Rwandan specialties such as goat brochettes, herb-stuffed tilapia fish and the Chez Lando grilled chicken. The restaurant has a private bungalow-style dining area and an open-air patio. Hotel Chez Lando offers two dining style choices — the Chez Lando barbecue grill and the La Fringale French restaurant. La Fringale is an alternative to the spicy food and conversation of the grill. It offers more formal dining for couples or business groups who desire privacy. On the menu are a variety of old La Fringale favourites such as pepper steak, chicken cordon bleu, and peanut sauce chicken steamed in banana leaves, Four Seasons pizza, a Rwandan vegetarian plate and club sandwiches for a light meal. You can order other African dishes in advance. Desserts options include local fruit sorbets, pineapple sauce crepes, and ice cream. The wine list includes a wide selection of South African and French wines. The bar has a large variety of beverages — soft drinks, local and imported beers, ciders, house wines, champagne, aperitifs, brandy, gin, vodka, and premium and deluxe whiskeys. There is ample parking space.   Securing $15.5b will be the toughest challenge as countries turn to Beijing. The airline said in March that the 787 Dreamliner will be its flagship aircraft.