They began as Maasai Mbili — two young sign writers who liked to wear the shuka. They found an eager audience with their winning mix of streetwise paintings and sculptures that included graffiti, mixed media poster designs and recycled waste — plastics, wire and tin. And they quickly found a niche as East Africa’s answer to pop by giving everyday objects iconic status — echoing the ideas of Andy Warholw, with his soup can silkscreens, and Jasper Johns, who presented flags and targets as high art. As Maasai Mbili — soon known as M2 — prospered so it grew, becoming at the present count something like Maasai Ishirini (M20), although togas are no longer obligatory. The artists and wannabes operate from a converted pub in the heart of Nairobi’s Kibera settlement, often touted as Africa’s largest slum. Founders Otieno Gomba and Otieno Kota remain; inspiring, enthusing and the mainsprings of the artists’ collective, while Kota — erratic genius of the region’s art scene with his gigantic wool and string woven screens and his stitched tin panels and sculptures made from objects found on the tip — also operates nowadays from his own studio. More than 100 examples of the energetic work this collective produces can be seen at the Polka Dot Art Gallery at The Souk in Karen; a rowdy — and welcome — change from the usual polished fare seen in the heart of middle-class Kenya. Phonetic English The founding synthesis of adapted bits of rubbish found on the dump has been put gleefully on show, together with paintings and constructions that prove at least some members of the group spent time getting to grips with the basics of colour, form and composition. With 12 of the collective’s 20 or so artists exhibiting, there is not enough space to detail all their varied work, but chief among the highlights would be pieces by Gomba himself, Kevo Stero (real name Kevin Irungu) and the late Ashif Malamba. Gomba, who exemplifies the group’s love of edgy satire, shows several pieces, the best including his group of three wooden plaques on the bizarre theme of shoe repair. After looking at them, however, fixing shoes seems the most natural subject you could find. Most of the artists in the Collective seem to share a taste for phonetic English (latterly derived from 4ne txts, lol!) which are a well deserved dig at the delightful idiocy of some English spellings. (Cholmondeley pronounced Chumley, being one that springs to mind.) Gomba’s wooden boards, which feature rescued shoe soles, cry Save Our Sole Shop and Wi Repair Them Soles. He fashioned the soles to look like fish. Dover soles perhaps. Elsewhere, Gomba has a small group of paintings that betray his origins as a sign painter, one being a slick parody of an election poster stating Vote 4 Mi, the Profeshinol Hustla. Stero has a running gag in which his paintings are pages from a newspaper called the Daily Kibera and, painted swiftly on irregular sheets of ply, look like kiosk signs. Origins again. It was touching to see one of the last works of Ashif Malamba, a Maasai Mbili stalwart who died some three years ago. It is a tin trunk bearing painted faces and the legend My Tresha Box. Then there is Charles Chakara with his Mama Kitchen, a neat little construction on which a cut-out figure is silhouetted against a matrix of drink cans and other food packaging. Enjoy too the four wittily repurposed vinyl records of Blak Odhiambo — forgotten tunes (Listen Like Thieves, anyone?) with messages painted across the playing surface. Worth noticing as well are the stitched tin wall hangings of Joakim Kwaru, not so much for the fact that they are embarrassingly close copies of Otieno Kota’s pioneering pieces, complete with suspended chipped enamel plates, but because Kwaru, an artist of whom few have heard, has had the wonderful cheek to ask $1,000 for one of them, aptly entitled The Unknown I. Either the pricing is an integral part of the artwork or it is a deliberate poke in the eye of the art establishment (or both). Virtually unknown, untried and unproven in the wider market, I admire his wonderful audacity. And so… I thoroughly enjoyed this incoherent, messy sprawl of an exhibition, just as I enjoy co-founder Kota’s astonishing panels, screens and sculptures. However, another Kota, if not Kwaru, must be lurking in this gallery waiting to shock and surprise us. And that can only be great news for this region’s artistic development. So gud luk guyz! Ur Maasai Mbili Collective is a nashunal tresha. Wel dun!   Satire is the weapon of choice for an artists’ collective. National prayer pay is made for TV, a gaudy rather than godly affair. Citizens express fears that the current amendments may be misused by criminals.