Rwanda has welcomed the jailing for life of a Rwandan-born Swede man over genocide. Theodore Rukeratabaro was the third genocide suspect to be convicted in Sweden following his arrest in 2016. The court found him guilty of playing a “leading role” in the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi. “This is obviously a positive development that should serve as an example to the rest of the world. Genocide fugitives and suspects should not be given a safe haven,” Rwandan prosecution authority spokesman Faustin Nkusi told The EastAfrican. The Rwandan prosecutors had shared Mr Rukeratabaro’s indictment with Sweden in December 2014. This led to his arrest in October 2016. “Sweden has been proactive about each genocide case on their territory and they have come to Rwanda for investigations on several occasions. Within four years they have been able to serve justice. This is an example of a global effort to eliminate the culture of impunity towards genocide suspects,” Mr Nkusi said. The 49-year-old, who arrived in Sweden in 1998 and was naturalised in 2006, was arraigned on charges of murder, attempted murder, and kidnapping of members of the Tutsi minority. Many of the witnesses and victims in the case were interviewed in Rwanda with the Swedish authorities also visiting some of the crime scenes. The court has also ordered compensation of $11,000 to sixteen victims who had lodged the case. Indictments In 2014, Sweden sentenced its first genocide suspect, Rwandan-born Swede Stanislas Mbanenande, to life in prison. Two years later, another Rwandan-born Swede, Clever Berinyindi, was given a similar sentence over the genocide. Rwanda has to date issued 911 warrants of arrest for genocide suspects and fugitives, many of whom reside in France, Belgium, UK, USA and Norway. Rwanda's neighbours, however, have been most sluggish to try or extradite genocide suspects. The East African Community (EAC) has about 317 known suspects, representing about 35 per cent of total indictments issued across the world. Only 15 suspects have so far been extradited to Rwanda with just three of those deported from East Africa. Democratic Republic of Congo has the largest number of known genocide fugitives with 303 indictments, while France with 42, has the highest outside Africa.   Kigali is questioning the criteria the judge used, considering the gravity of the crime of genocide. Peace will not be sustained merely on the basis of a bilateral deal between the two rival President Museveni orders army to guard lawmakers.