Gambians are looking forward to having a new constitution after President Adama Barrow inaugurated an 11-member committee to review the current one. The committee, chaired by veteran lawyer Chernor Sulayman Jallow, has 18 months to prepare a draft, which could replace the current constitution in force since 1997. The committee members, who took the oath of office in the presence of the president, are expected to present the draft and a comprehensive report, to the Justice minister. The current constitution, described as antidemocratic, was drafted and adopted under former strongman Yahya Jammeh. Jammeh's 21-year rule was characterised by allegations of human rights violations. The review is a fulfilment of a key campaign promise by President Barrow, who defeated Jammeh in a disputed election in December 2016, bringing to an end his two decades of authoritarian rule. Be responsible A statement from the presidency prior to Monday's ceremony said the Constitutional Review Commission would be responsible for drafting an all-inclusive and progressive constitution that would cater for the needs of every Gambian as enshrined in the government's National Development Plan 2018-2021. President Barrow stressed the need for a constitution built on the foundation of nationalism and thus accommodates diversity in terms of gender, religion and ethnicity. The decision to rewrite the constitution was taken at a national conference in May last year, followed by the enactment of the Constitutional Review Act, the same year. The government, however, says the entire exercise which will end in a national referendum, should not exceed two years. Term limit Gambia is expected to conduct its next General Elections latest 2021. Among the main concerns of pro-democracy campaigners is to have presidential term limit entrenched in the constitution. Since independence in 1965, Gambia the smallest nation on mainland Africa, has had only two presidents. Jammeh's predecessor, Sir Dawda Kairaba Jawara, served for 30 years before being removed in a 1994-coup. There were also calls for an anti corruption law and a proper system of regulating housing. All lawyers President Barrow, at Monday's ceremony at State House in Banjul, reiterated his commitment to ensuring a constitution that guarantees the rights and freedom of all Gambians. "As a citizen, I have this view, as some Gambians do, that a two term limit for all heads of state should be entrenched in the constitution," he said. The Constitutional Review Commission members, who are all lawyers, comprises five women, a move Justice minister Abubacarr Baa Tambedou said reflected the government's commitment to promoting gender equality. The new constitution will be Gambia's fourth since the Independent Constitution of 1965 and the one in 1970, which was replaced by another one in 1997.   Burly but soft-spoken, Barrow was thrust into the limelight following the jailing of top officials from the United Democratic Party (UDP) in July. Thousands take to the streets to demand credible polls Beats technological heavyweight Japan which has been ranked tenth.