The next big thing for Uganda is on July 10, but it is not the World Cup semi-finals. It will hopefully not feature bombs. We shall be holding nationwide elections in all the villages for the all-important village chairpersons, numbering over 60,000. Then there shall be a quarter of a million other elected “special” persons to formalise, namely secretaries for youth, women, the disabled and the elderly in each village. These will be elections with a difference, for in this day and age, the voters will be lining up behind the candidate of their choice. Some legally inclined people have been questioning the legality and legitimacy of a ballot of this nature not being secret in a multiparty dispensation. The village is a village, meaning everybody knows everybody and they are interrelated in many ways. How then do you make people vote in the open for (and therefore against) people with whom they have so many ties? But the government is adamant that there is no money to run an election under a secret ballot, so we have to line up. To fathom the enormity of this situation, consider that it is 18 years since the last elections at village level were held. Babies whose mothers missed the election because they had just come from maternity can now stand as candidates in the coming election. So the wait for the candidates has been a long one and they are immersing themselves in the campaigns with a passion; after all, they will be seeking to unseat fellows who have held their posts for 18 instead of five years. The delay has been caused by constitutional issues like the country switching from single-party to multiparty political, complicated by financial constraints. But now picture the long-awaited day; on July 10, as a man stands to have his voters line up behind him, he sees his wife lining up behind his rival. You would think that a man’s wife who knows him best and his fitness to lead or lack thereof, should exercise her democratic right to not vote for him, however much she loves him. But realistically, can she do so and expect it to be business as usual back home? How about your local shopkeeper who gives you groceries on credit? Can you freely line up behind his rival when he is standing? How about your landlord, to whom you owe rent arrears already? Can you vote for his opponent in the open and expect not to have your things thrown out of his house before nightfall the polling day? If not, then can we call this a free and fair election? Before you wish us an election “as peaceful as a military coup in Zimbabwe” come July 10, can you imagine the priests and pastors in every village going to vote? They are supposed to be sympathetic with every member of their flock who confides in them. What will the candidates think of them when they see them voting against them? Will they go back to their church and listen to the sermons of these “traitors”? So as you enjoy the World Cup semi-finals, spare a thought for the 40 million of us who will be witnessing the break-up of marriages, the abrupt ending of tenancies tenancies, the foundering of churches… Joachim Buwembo is a Kampala-based journalist. buwembo@yahoo.com   President and rebel leader pledge to end war Court commutes sentence that prompted international outcry