Following international opposition to Tanzania’s plan to construct the 2,100MW Stiegler’s Gorge dam in the Selous Game Reserve, the government has now promised to conduct a strategic environmental assessment prior to the commencement of the project. Tanzania’s promise came at the eleventh hour just as Unesco was set to rule on whether or not to strike the Selous Game Reserve from the World Heritage sites list. According to a government statement, Tanzanian officials went to Bahrain, where the World Heritage Committee was convening, to explain the project. The World Heritage Committee and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) had expressed their concerns about the risks to the reserve posed by the proposed dam. “The move represents important progress but it is crucial that the assessment is completed without delay and to the highest international standards and is independently reviewed,” said the WWF referring to the presentation as “a welcome move.” But, the WWF that also made it clear that it was against any infrastructure project in the World Heritage Site that would damage the site’s ecological value unless a strategic environmental assessment is implemented. The Fund said in statement on Wednesday; “It must also examine alternative, less harmful energy projects that could instead be pursued and cover the ecoregion in its entirety to secure the future of this wilderness site for generations to come.” Despite growing opposition to the project, the government is still determined to pursue it and has set aside Tsh700 billion ($306,286,000), which is equivalent to 40 per cent of the Tsh1.69 trillion ($739,461,000) budget for the 2018/19 financial year. According to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Unesco “has agreed to co-operate with Tanzania in ensuring that this project does not bring environmental harm.” Richard Lo Giudice, the programme specialist at the World Heritage Centre, had earlier told The EastAfrican that the Stiegler’s George matter would be discussed at the World Heritage Committee’s 42nd session in Manama, Bahrain, taking place from June 24 to July 4. The heritage committee comprises representatives from 21 states parties to the Convention concerning the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage.   Power project could cost Selous reserve World Heritage status. Securing $15.5b will be the toughest challenge as countries turn to Beijing. The airline said in March that the 787 Dreamliner will be its flagship aircraft.