Mahama said his decision was due to a groundswell of support from Ghanaians. Mahama is expected to vie for the NDC's ticket with at least four contenders at the party's primaries slated for between October and November. Ghana's former president John Mahama on Thursday announced his bid to seek the nomination of the main opposition party and contest the 2020 election. Mahama, who became president in 2012 but lost his re-election bid to President Nana Akufo-Addo of the New Patriotic Party (NPP) in 2016, said he had decided to give the country's top job another shot. "I have submitted my letter to the General Secretary of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) confirming my decision to contest for the leadership of the party with a clear view on victory in 2020," the former leader announced on his Facebook page. Mahama said his decision was due to a groundswell of support from Ghanaians. "I've prayed diligently about the task ahead and I believe I owe a duty to God and my country to take our great party back into government, to right the wrongs of the past and to put an end to the cries of the people under the current dispensation," he said. The 59-year-old promised to take Ghana to greater heights if given the opportunity to serve again. "The 2020 election presents our party, the NDC, with a great opportunity to offer yet again, visionary leadership driven by a commitment to create opportunities for all our people and not just a few," he said. He added that his aim was to position Ghana "as a true middle-income country by modernizing our dilapidated social and economic infrastructure." Mahama is expected to vie for the NDC's ticket with at least four contenders at the party's primaries slated for between October and November. In May, the former head of state had hinted of his plan to seek the NDC's nomination. Mahama lost the 2016 election to Akufo-Addo over a faltering economy and corruption allegations. Ghana has been one of Africa's fastest growing economies in 2018, fuelled by a surge in oil and gas production. The West African nation is also a major producer of gold and cocoa.   Analysts had widely predicted the Zimbabwe top court would rule against the election petition. Gen Kale Kayihura accused of failing to protect war materials and aiding repatriation of Rwandan