Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) has called on Tanzanian authorities to drop allegations of illegal assembly against a local journalist. Sitta Tumma, a reporter with privately owned Tanzania Daima newspaper, was on August 8 arrested and detained overnight while covering an opposition Chadema campaign rally ahead of a local by-election in Tarime District, 750km north of the administrative capital Dodoma. "Tanzanian authorities should investigate those who arrested and assaulted journalist Sitta Tumma, instead of intimidating him with a bogus investigation into his reporting at a political event," said CPJ's sub-Saharan Africa representative, Muthoki Mumo. Even though Mr Tumma repeatedly identified himself as a journalist, he said he was assaulted during detention and accused of unlawful assembly. Mr Tumma was released on August 9 on bond but police told him he may be required at any time to assist in investigations, according to his lawyer Ernest Mhagama. Tuma said that police claimed they could not identify him as a journalist because he was not dressed as one. "I heard that they said I was not wearing a uniform. But it is funny because as a journalist I do not have a uniform. My uniform is the pen, notebook, and camera. I am not a soldier, I don't wear uniform," said Tumma. Under Tanzanian laws, journalists are not required to put on specific clothes. CPJ says that the intent is to clampdown on media "The idea that journalists should dress a certain way is a joke, but the grim state of press freedom in Tanzania isn't at all funny," added Ms Mumo. According to media reports, police arrived at the Chadema rally with a notification from election officials declaring the assembly illegal, and ordered politicians and crowds to disperse but supporters defied the order. Tumma, opposition MP Esther Matiko and others were arrested in the melee that ensued. Tarime-Rorya special zone police commander Henry Mwaibambe denied media claims that the journalist had been targeted and said that he would be treated like any other, according media reports. CPJ is an independent organisation that champions for press freedom worldwide.   Kenya Editors Guild “gravely concerned about the developments affecting media freedom” in the country. Lawyers for the opposition MDC launch a blistering attack on the ruling Zanu-PF party. Local media quote Mr Oulanya as saying that Mr Kyagulanyi is in poor health.