Nairobi has to be one of the most bustling cities on the continent. My office is located downtown bang in the centre of the Central Business District. The first few days we moved in, I remember wondering whether we would ever get used to the noise. Our large glass windows were high above a bustling bus station always full of people in a hurry. People look like ants from that kind of height and the amount of yelling and conversation collectively can be mistaken for a riot. Amid all that chaotic movement, sprouts inspiration. Many times, we find ourselves standing at the window hypnotised by the movement. Feeling inspired by just the sheer numbers of people on their own life missions, determined to make ends meet. Being located at the pulsating city centre has other conveniences – public transport into and out of the CBD is quite organised. One day I needed to get to a meeting and decided to just hop into a matatu since the distance is not too far and the bus station is nearby. From that very experience a valuable lesson was learned: Know the number of matatu you need to use before you get there. On most occasions, when people are receiving directions, they ask where they should get the transport and the number of the vehicle. There is a system in the CBD and vehicles park in particular areas. But in this city of ours, the competition is high to get people onto the vehicle, especially in these parking zones. At Kencom, for instance – you can see three buses going to the same destination. They have the same number but are run by different companies. The yelling, catcalling and repetition of number by the conductors is similar to a marketplace where vendors are screaming at the top of their lungs to attract customers. Do you really go for the bus with the most active conductor? Or do you look for vehicles that are almost filled? Here you are, an individual in a hurry because leisure walking only exists on Sunday in Nairobi, so you look for the vehicle that looks likeliest to leave soon. And so you get conned by fillers, like the people they pay during the Oscars to fill empty seats in the auditorium. Such a clever trick! People are planted in vehicles to pretend to be waiting for the mode of transport to fill up, then when it runs out of space they walk out. Money and the lies On this particular day I had no idea of the matatu I was to take. I knew where they were stationed and figured to make my commute from there. As I walked toward the parked minibuses, the conductors swarmed toward me like a pack of stray dogs that had just seen a piece of raw meat thrown their way. One pulled my hand in one direction, the other pulled my other hand. Another stood right in front of me, pointing out that his vehicle was almost full. Remaining calm, I mentioned my destination. “You’ve come to the right bus – hop on!” Dragged helplessly, I found myself shoved into a van with people who had looks on their faces that said they had just gone through the same experience. A few minutes later, we did indeed leave the station and head toward Thika highway. Then once we hit the highway, I realise the driver has taken the wrong turn. Instead of turning right, he went straight on. At this point, I decided to get off before I was taken too far out of my way. I could cross the road and signal to the oncoming matatus on the right road to pick me up. The conductor was busy poking passengers on the front row to pay their fee as I signalled that I wanted to be dropped off. He whistled at the driver to stop at the next stage. As I bent over to walk to the exit, the conductor asked me to pay 20 shillings. I was shocked that first, he lied that I was on the right vehicle. Then he wanted me to pay him! So I asked him why he had said that I was on the right vehicle. He responds “You were at the wrong stage. Every one of those conductors lied to you, no one was going in that direction.” Well, I refused to part with 20 shillings and the conductor actually looked like he wanted to slap me. Kind of sounds like how a lot of things run in our country these days, right? Nerima Wako-Ojiwa is executive director of Siasa Place. Twitter: @NerimaW   Zimbabweans brace for the 10pm announcement of the results. Health ministry says ready to respond as DRC flies team to Beni.