Ghanaian musician and environmental activist Rocky Dawuni is expected to stage a live concert at the Global Landscape Forum which wraps up at the United Nations complex, Gigiri in Nairobi Thursday. About 1,000 delegates, including policymakers, landscape and financial experts and indigenous and community leaders, were taking part in the forum that opened on Wednesday. Dawuni, who shuttles between Ghana and the US, told the media that artistes could use their voices to bring people together and create a consensus around landscape and forest restoration. “I believe that the environment is one of the most important aspects of the human community,” he said. Original tunes “The earth is our home, apart from the bread of life, the earth is the place that gives us sustenance, the land in which we live in, the space in which we feel secure,…we have to recognise ourselves as custodians for the future,” he said further. Dawuni was nominated for a 2015 Grammy Award for Best Reggae Album, Branches of the Same Tree, which features original tunes, including Afro dancehall mashup African Thriller, released with a striking video. The two-day conference is the world's largest science-led platform on sustainable land use. It focused on the coordination and promotion of international, national and private sector support for forest and landscape restoration, while paving the way for forest and landscape restoration. Experts at the forum said a third of Africa’s landscape was degraded due to human exploitation and related climate change. Political commitment Human activities, including farming and resource extraction, the experts observed, cause damage to the climate, the environment and increase poverty-related risks. The Nairobi forum was also exploring ways of encouraging political commitment around a pan-African country-led initiative to restore 100 million hectares of degraded landscape across the continent by 2030 –the AFR100 scheme. Twenty-six countries in Africa have already committed to restore 91.4 million hectares as of August. Ethiopia has pledged 15 million hectares, Cameroon 12 million, while the DR Congo and Kenya have each committed to restore 8 million and 5.1 million hectares respectively, according to statistics by the initiative.   South Sudan rebel chief approves peace agreement marking end of negotiations. Bukola Saraki has declared his intention to contest in the 2019 presidential election.