Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta arrived in Washington DC on Saturday afternoon for a landmark official visit that will see him hold talks with US President Donald Trump at the White House on Monday. During the visit, the President will also meet executives of top US companies to promote Kenya as a preferred investment destination, a statement from State House said. Cooperation between Kenya and the US in security, governance, trade and investment, people to people cooperation and partnership in regional and international matters will take centre stage during President Kenyatta’s Washington visit, State House added. The President, accompanied by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, touched down at Dulles International Airport at 4pm Washington DC time (11pm, Nairobi time) on Saturday and was received by a team of senior US and Kenyan government officials led by Kenya's ambassador to the US Robinson Njeru Githae. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma said the President’s visit to the US is significant in many aspects. “It underscores the importance of Kenya-US relations, a relationship that is historical and that has been growing in both breadth and depth over the years to cover a wide range of areas from security and defence to governance, trade and investment,” Dr Juma said in an interview ahead of President Kenyatta's arrival. Dr Juma said the visit is an opportunity to strengthen the bilateral relations with the most “significant country in the world today”. Agoa According to the CS, one of the items that will feature prominently during President Kenyatta’s historic meeting with President Trump will be how to increase Kenya’s export volumes under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (Agoa). “You know, we are a key beneficiary of Agoa. But it is also true that there are a number of lines within Agoa that we could enhance. And so, there will be discussions around this. And we hope we can also commence discussions on post-Agoa arrangements,” said Dr Juma. State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena said the meeting of the two leaders is aimed at elevating the Kenya-US relations. “The two leaders will also discuss regional and global matters, in particular, regional peace and security, collaboration in the fight against terrorism as well as international cooperation,” Ms Dena said when she announced the visit early this month. President Kenyatta will on Monday morning meet business executives of leading US companies under the umbrella of the Business Council for International Understanding (BCIU) before he heads to the White House for talks with his host, President Trump.   The Trump administration has been warming up to Nairobi in recent months. Bemba takes legal route to contesting the election. Mogadishu election agency issues registration certificates to political groups