The performance triggered excitement and a frenzied debate online, with tweeters across the world lauding the athlete’s heroics. The organisers of the event, IAAF Diamond League acknowledged the performance, saying, ‘‘Why not test yourself? The moment Conseslus Kipruto lost his shoe... and still won the Men’s 3000m Steeplechase". Kenya's Olympic steeplechase champion Conseslus Kipruto stunned the world last evening when he won the Diamond League in Zurich running in one shoe. Kipruto clocked 8 minutes 10 seconds and 15 milliseconds ahead of Morocco’s Soufiane El Bakkali. In a dramatic show in the Swiss city, Kipruto’s shoe came off after only 1 minute 24 seconds into the race, and for the remaining six minutes and 54 seconds, the unfazed runner would manoeuvre the track in a single shoe to the astonished amusement of fellow contestants and spectators alike. Frenzied debate The performance triggered excitement and a frenzied debate online, with tweeters across the world lauding the athlete’s heroics. Athletics Weekly called the feat ‘Shoeless wonder’, tweeting, ‘‘Despite losing his left shoe in the early stages, Conseslus Kipruto out-sprints Soufiane El Bakkali to win one of the races of 2018 as he takes the 3000m steeplechase in 8:10.15.’’ “Conseslus Kipruto, we Salute you!” BBC Sport said. “When you still win gold despite running most of the race with one shoe.”   ‘‘Conseslus Kipruto was already a ton of fun to watch, but winning the Diamond League final with one shoe (he lost it 1:24 into the race) might be the most impressive thing he has ever done. What an amazing performance,’’ tweeted Jonathan Gault. Sports Illustrated hailed Kipruto for ‘‘pulling off epic win’’. The organisers of the event, IAAF Diamond League acknowledged the performance, saying, ‘‘Why not test yourself? The moment Conseslus Kipruto lost his shoe... and still won the Men’s 3000m Steeplechase". For James Ronoh, another Twitter user, the performance triggered memories of his childhood. He said: ‘‘Conseslus Kipruto winning with one shoe reminds me of the street football we used to play back then in the village with no shoes on, with no injuries recorded, after almost a half a day match with no half time. We used to call that game ‘KAFUNDO.’” Kipruto, 24, has successfully taken the baton of the steeplechase from fellow countryman Ezekiel Kemboi who dominated the race for more than eight years.   President Kenyatta failed to assent the amended Finance Bill to spare taxpayers more levies. Police and soldiers heavily deployed in Bobi Wine's stronghold.