Confusion reigned over the ownership of a vehicle stolen in Kenya and recovered in Tanzania, with police from the two countries giving conflicting information. The black V8 Nissan Patrol was intercepted in Bomang’ombe, Tanzania, as it was being driven to Moshi town in Kilimanjaro, two days after it was stolen in Nairobi. Tanzanian police had earlier told the media that the vehicle belongs to State House Nairobi, but later retracted saying their investigation revealed it did not. Meanwhile, Kenyan police maintained the vehicle had no links with the presidential escort. Mr Musa Yego, head of Kenya's Directorate of Criminal Investigations’ Flying Squad, said the vehicle was stolen from Mr Luke Indeche Obbo at 5.30pm on August 18 on Loitoktok Road near Muthangari, about 7km west of the city centre, by four people masquerading as police officers. They kept asking him about the whereabouts of the car's owner, Ms Irene Ndikumwenayo, a Rwandan living in Kenya. They bundled him onto the back seat and drove him around the city for hours. "The victim was driven around the city till morning, when he was dumped on Wood Avenue off Ngong Road. They took his jacket, mobile phone, ID Card, and Ksh2,000 ($20) cash then drove away with the car,” Mr Yego said. He reported the matter to the Kilimani Police Station and the car's registration number was circulated immediately; detectives also contacted the company that fitted it with a tracker. “The car was tracked to Bomang’ombe between Arusha and Moshi,” Mr Yego said, adding that the Kenya Police, International Police Organisation and the Tanzanian Police Force collaborated and traced the car, which had already been fitted with a fake Tanzanian number plate, T954 DEQ. Kilimanjaro Regional Police Commander Hamisi Issah said the car was intercepted at a police roadblock, and that two people were arrested. “We have interrogated the two suspects and their statements do not add up,” he said. He said the two Tanzanian nationals, Bosco Beda Kiaria (44) and Gabriel Gerome Mombury (28), would be arraigned once investigations are concluded. Kenyan officers were sent to Tanzania to drive the car back to Kenya. -Additional reporting by Florian Kaijage.   This was a culmination of a back and forth with agencies since April. The government hopes to increase production to 350,000 barrels per day.