The Deputy Speaker of Uganda’s parliament, Jacob Oulanya, on Wednesday visited Robert Sentamu Kyagulanyi alias Bobi Wine in jail and said the MP was in pain. In a 8-second clip circulated widely on social media shows Mr Kyagulanyi, who represents Kyadondo East constituency, sitting at a round plastic table laughing, but with apparent difficulty, dressed in a red shirt and pair of shorts, and slippers. Mr Oulanya is seen dressed in a suit and his trademark bowtie, swiping on his mobile phone. There is no sound on the video. In a short statement to The EastAfrican, parliament’s director of communication and public affairs Chris Obore confirmed the visit, saying the Deputy Speaker went to see what condition Mr Kyagulanyi and Mityana Municipality MP Francis Zaake were in. He was accompanied by parliament’s protocol and information officers. Mr Kyagulanyi, who was a key campaigner for Kassiano Wadri, the winner of the Arua Municipality by-election, was arrested in the wee-hours of Tuesday, August 14, the eve of voting. His arrest, detention and arraignment in a military court sparked violent protests in various parts across the country, over concerns he was tortured while in custody. The MP was transferred to Makindye army barracks last week. Local media quoted Mr Oulanya as saying that Mr Kyagulanyi was in poor health. “What I have seen is that both of them are in pain. I talked with Hon Kyagulanyi, but he is in a lot of pain. He is, however, in a uniquely humorous mood and we were laughing,” NBS TV quoted the Deputy Speaker as saying. Kampala, the Ugandan capital, was calm for a second day on Wednesday after a chaotic Monday, when the elite Special Force Command and Military Police took over from the regular police and engaged protesters in running battles. Mr Kyagulanyi is expected to appear before an army court on Thursday to answer charges of gun possession. Thirty-four other people were arrested with him after the by-election. They include the MP-elect Mr Wadri and MPs Gerald Karuhanga and Paul Mwiru and former MP Mike Mabbike, who were charged in the Gulu Magistrate’s Court and remanded. At least 100 other people were reportedly arrested during the Monday riots. The hotly contested election has claimed the lives of at least two people, including Yasin Kawuma, Mr Kyagulanyi’s driver, who was shot by a security officer on August 13 in the aftermath of an alleged stoning of the motorcade of President Yoweri Museveni after the campaign closed. A second person was killed in Mityana in central Uganda on Sunday, after a policeman opened fire on a commuter taxi carrying football fans, amid protests over the continued detention and alleged torture of Mityana Municipality MP Francis Zaake. Five others sustained gunshot wounds. Journalists have also been targeted by the police, with several arrests and beatings. Both the police and the army have condemned the actions of their officers and promised to prosecute perpetrators. Meanwhile, Ugandan artistes, including comedians, musicians and actors, on Wednesday held prayers for Bobi Wine at the Rubaga Catholic Cathedral in the capital Kampala.   Robert Kyagulanyi hires US law firm Robert Amsterdam. Lawyers for the opposition MDC launch a blistering attack on the ruling Zanu-PF party.