Jamaican-American reggae star Tarrus Riley will be the guest performer at the grand finale of the Swangz All Star Tour scheduled for August 31 at the Lugogo Cricket Oval in Kampala. The Swangz All Star Tour was announced in May this year to celebrate a decade of music production house, Swangz Avenue, famous for producing the works of a number of local musicians over the years. The tour is organised in partnership with Bell Jamz. The finale winds up three-month regional celebrations. Swangz Avenue was started in Makindye, a Kampala suburb, by a group of friends with a shared passion for music. Swangz has worked with the likes of Moze Radio (RIP) and Weasel, GNL Zamba, Raba Daba, Navio, Keko, Vampos, Aziz Azion and many more; it has created new sounds and wave of artistes who have attained fame over the past 10 years. Swangz Avenue has groomed and managed talented musicians to stardom such as Sera (RIP), Irene Ntale, Winnie Nwagi, and Vinka. Bell Jamz music was launched by Uganda Breweries Ltd under its flagship brand Bell Lager in 2017. It was born out of the need to craft unique musical experiences for its consumers. Riley was born on April 16, 1979 in the Bronx, New York, USA and raised in Jamaica. He has released six albums. His hit songs include She’s Royal, Come Ova, Gimme Like One Drop, Don’t Come Back, Just the Way You Are, and Never Leave I. Riley has won several music awards and performed around the world. This will be his first performance in Uganda. He will appear alongside Ugandans who have recorded with Swangz Avenue, including Fik Fameika, Ykee Benda, Bebe Cool, Winnie Nwagi, Sheebah, Vinka, Vampos, and A Pass. “This show will be different. Tarrus is not the main act, but rather a guest performer who will perform alongside Ugandan artistes. As opposed to previous shows where Ugandans curtain raise for international acts, the Ugandan artistes will share a stage with the award-winner,” the founder of Swangz Avenue, Benon Mugumbya, said. Tickets cost Ush30,000 ($8) ordinary, Ush100,000 ($26.7) VIP, and a VVIP table is Ush3 million ($801).   Event celebrates a decade of music production house, Swangz Avenue. Drug distributor that began life in Katwe slum becomes first privately founded firm to list on The telco applied for Sylvia Mulinge’s work permit on May 23, and is still awaiting a response