Oxfam and the African Media Initiative held a parley on the extractives industry in East Africa in Nairobi on August 22 and 23, and it was interesting being more than a fly on the wall. There were plenty of stories illustrating how opaque governments and oil companies are about the contracts they enter into. There were revelations about what one could call “oil refugees” in Uganda, with a case of 251 families kicked off their lands in the Albertine Basin, and now living in camps as their resettlement and compensation is mired in a barrel of crude oil somewhere. Briefly, someone dropped an idea so radical (but sensible from a green business point of view) even in a room full of civil society activists, I didn’t hear anyone pick it up. She said perhaps the most precious “mineral” in the oil fields our governments are concessioning to multinationals is water, not oil, and that its value should be priced into the contracts. There was good news from an unlikely corner of Africa: In the Democratic Republic of Congo, which for decades has been a shining example of greed and corruption in the extractives industry, civil society actually found an ally in President Joseph Kabila, who backed their call to raise the taxes on the mining companies from 2.5 per cent to 10 per cent. And some hilarious moments off the floor. The story was told of an African working for an international financing firm, who some years ago was so appalled at an oil deal being negotiated in an African country, he snitched on his bosses and told the minister not to sign the deal, pointing out the numerous pitfalls. He left, feeling proud he had done his duty as a patriotic pan-African. He woke up to a surprise. The minister had thrown him under the bus! He had told the chief of the firm that our man had gone and tried to persuade him not to sign. The minister even demanded that he not be on the delegation. The man wanted his brown envelope; he had his children’s fees to pay in some international school, and damn his country’s interests. Yet, sitting back and listening, one couldn’t help but feel that extractives, and oil in particular, are a resource from a dying era. To countries like Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania, they are a kind of second-generation resource. The first generation featured cotton, sisal, copper, gold, bauxite. In Nigeria, a shocking report by the National Bureau of Statistics in 2014 said the Nigeria oil industry accounted for just 0.01 per cent of new jobs that year – under 600. This despite accounting for about 70 per cent of Nigeria’s revenue. Today, Nigeria’s Nollywood film industry provides livelihoods to over one million people directly and indirectly, making it the largest employer after agriculture, and oil can’t come anywhere near enough to leave a stain on it. There is a future in energy – the sun. Solar, or renewables, will be the next big thing, and 2025, when countries like Cape Verde plan to get 100 per cent of their electricity from renewables, could be the tipping point. But that is fourth generation. Right now we are busy exploiting a third-generation resource anchored in platform technology. Safaricom’s mobile money-transfer service, M-Pesa, was only the first step on this road. Charles Onyango-Obbo is publisher of data visualiser Africapaedia and Rogue Chiefs. Twitter@cobbo3   South Sudan rebel chief approves peace agreement marking end of negotiations. Bukola Saraki has declared his intention to contest in the 2019 presidential election.