Rifts continue to plague Uganda’s largest opposition party the Forum for Democratic Change. The most recent came after the reshuffle of its leadership in parliament, with camps divided over ways to mobilise the party. The FDC was smarting from a defeat in all five elections for Members of Parliament and in the newly created municipalities, which became operational after July 1. Party president Patrick Amuriat Oboi then moved to reshuffle the party leadership in parliament. The changes saw outgoing leader of opposition in parliament Winnie Kiiza replaced by Betty Aol Ocan, while Francis Mwijukye was appointed Commissioner of Parliament, replacing Cecilia Atim Ogwal. Chairpersons and vice chairpersons of the four oversight committees in parliament were also removed and replaced. The only top party official who retained his position is the opposition chief whip Ibrahim Semujju Nganda. Critics both within and outside FDC have described the reshuffle as a purge of people that did not support Mr Oboi when he contested and defeated incumbent party president Gen Mugisha Muntu last year. Reacting to the changes, outgoing chairperson of Parliament’s Committee on Commissions, State Authorities and State Enterprises, Abdu Katuntu was critical of the FDC president.“This wasn’t a reshuffle but a purge. Period,” he said, but days later revised his comment to say a purge was an overstatement considering that Semujju Nganda who supported Gen Mugisha Muntu was retained as opposition chief whip. Some critics say the changes were about the calibre of some of the legislators chairing oversight committees. They argued that critical committees like Public Accounts Committee, Local Governments Committee and the Committee on Government Assurances are the vanguard of accountability, and when they do well they show the opposition’s capabilities. Mr Oboi insisted that the changes have nothing to do with who supported which candidate in the race for party president, but about improving the way FDC functions. “Opportunities should be given to as many people as possible,” he said on Monday, days after announcing the reshuffle. “In making these changes, we are realigning the work of parliament with the work of FDC,” added Mr Obio. Mr Oboi’s faction seems to have the upper hand and is shaped around the idea of defiance as proposed by former party president and four-time presidential candidate Kizza Besigye. However, this method is criticised by the faction led by Gen Muntu who says that defiance has failed to build grassroot support, which the party needs in order to win power. Gen Muntu was defeated by Mr Oboi in a hotly contested election last year, which left the top party leadership divided. Party members are now referred to as Team Muntu or Team PAO, and a possible breakaway of the former has been rumoured as the group remains uncomfortable in a political party that defines its methods by defiance, activism and confrontation.   What does this mean for opposition candidates, chances of winning seats at the 2021 elections? There are already signs of discord soon after signing of accord.