There is one sense in which former, and now late, secretary general of the UN, Kofi Annan, is similar to the also recently departed British-Trinidadian writer, VS Naipaul. They both refused to be straitjacketed by popular intellectual or ideological positions. Naipaul, as a writer and intellectual from the Third World, was expected to subscribe to post-colonial theory and, therefore, champion causes and agenda aimed at subverting the assumed neocolonial power relations between the formerly colonised and the coloniser. To the chagrin of many, Naipaul was a caustic critic of the assumptions of post-colonial theory. Annan was often a lone voice arguing that values such as respect for human rights were universal. He held this view against the tide of much of Africa’s intellectuals and ideologues expression, whose stance was that the West was repackaging imperialism in the language of universal values. Annan saw the International Criminal Court as an important instrument for holding African leaders to account for gross violations of human rights. This was much to the chagrin of his ideological interlocutors, supported vehemently (and not surprisingly) by African leaders and the African Union, a body that is, for all intents and purposes, a trade union for African presidents. The leaders used the neocolonial argument they have employed since Independence to deflect criticism of grand theft and gross abuse of human rights. The ICC, they thundered with appropriate histrionics, was an instrument of neocolonialism. Africa, they declared, was sovereign, and should be left alone to manage its own affairs. Oh, how African leaders love throwing around the sovereignty argument. To hear them, you would think that they had used sovereignty to create freedom and wealth for their people, and not, as is the case, used it as a cover to impoverish the continent while committing indescribable crimes against humanity. Instead of the ICC, the AU proposed an African Court of Justice which would presumably deal with cases of crimes against humanity. In the years since that proposal, not a single leader has been held to account despite monumental crimes in South Sudan, Gabon, Eritrea, CAR, DRC, Cameroon, Burundi and elsewhere. So much for the African Court of Justice. Kofi Annan was on to this diversionary tactic, and never wavered in his insistence that leaders must be held accountable for human-rights abuses. Even when there were hysterical calls for Africa to leave the ICC after it became clear that the court would not grant the AU's wish for African presidents to be given immunity from prosecution, he held fast in his support for the principles behind the court. Witness the cynicism of the sovereignty argument. Had the AU been granted its wish for immunity for presidents, that argument would have quietly faded away. Kofi had seen into this cynicism. The nonstarter African Court of Justice bears out his prescience. All his professional life, Kofi Annan was dedicated to peace. In 2001, he, together with the UN, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for situating peace and justice at the centre of world diplomacy. Annan made his arguments in a soft-spoken, almost self-effacing way. To adapt Theodore Roosevelt, Annan spoke softly but carried a big mind. He carried himself with dignity when the actions of African leaders were bringing indignity to the continent. However, one event will remain a blemish on Kofi Annan’s sterling legacy – the Rwanda genocide. At the time of the genocide, Annan was head of UN peacekeeping. The UN mission in Rwanda knew that genocide was being planned and did nothing to prevent it. As a matter of fact, when the genocide was underway, instead of increasing the capabilities of the UN mission in Rwanda, the UN withdrew, leaving Rwandans at the mercy of murderous militia and soldiers. In 100 days, a million people would lose their lives in one of the most horrific genocides of the 20th century. Some will argue that Kofi Annan was helpless, because the resoluteness of the UN is only as good as the political will of member countries. Yet as head of the peacekeeping mission, he bears political responsibility for the costly inaction. But any great man’s legacy is beset by contradictions, for he is, after all, a human being. Franz Fanon once wrote that each generation must discover its mission and either fulfil it or betray it. As a man, Kofi Annan discovered and fulfilled his mission. Tee Ngugi is a political and social commentator.   Philomena Mwilu arraigned on abuse of office and tax evasion charges. Riek Machar, as well as another group demand guarantees over their reservations about the deal.