Nigerian Senate President Bukola Saraki has declared his intention to contest in the 2019 presidential election. Dr Saraki, the third most senior politician after the president and vice president, defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in July to rejoin the main opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). His position as the Senate leader has pitted him against President Muhammadu Buhari’s party which has a majority in the Upper Chamber of Parliament. Dr Saraki while making the announcement on Thursday in Abuja said the economy was broken and needed urgent revival. “Many of our children are hungry. Many people are dying of avoidable or otherwise treatable diseases. “Many have fallen below basic living standards and are now among the 87 million people that have sealed Nigeria’s position as the country with the highest number of people in extreme poverty. “Our young people lack opportunities. The necessary education facilities and system to equip them for the future simply do not exist. “We are not creating the jobs needed to usefully engage them in order to grow our economy. And too often, the youth feel shut out, prevented from having any say in the direction of this nation,” he said. He said the harsh conditions that the people face are to blame for the state of insecurity in the country as citizens are pushed into criminal activities and terrorism to be able to eke out a living. “Many of our communities are paralysed with fear – due to incessant communal crises, kidnappings and other social ills, as well as the threat of terrorism. “We are failing abysmally to tackle the problems of today and to prepare for the future. “GDP growth rate has declined. Diversification remains an illusion. Unemployment is at an all-time high. Businesses are shutting down. Jobs are being lost in record numbers, and the capital needed to jumpstart our economy is going elsewhere,” he said. The 55-year-old trained medical doctor said the country, Africa’s largest economy and oil producer, is “more divided now than ever before”. He said there exists a festering gulf between the ‘Haves’ and the ‘Have-Nots’. “The fault lines of this nation are widening to an alarming degree,” he said adding that something needed to be done to mend the divide. “As things stand now, no one is safe in this country,” he said vowing to restore the “sanctity of the rule of law and strengthen democratic institutions in order to build a just, fair and equitable society for all.” “We need a new generation of leaders that are competent, with the capability to rise to the challenges of the 21st century. We must pull this country back together and rebuild, block by block, with dedication and commitment.” Dr Saraki first faces other aspirants in PDP including former vice president Atiku Abubakar, as well as governors Rabiu Kwankwaso and Alhaji Aminu Tambulwa, for the party’s presidential flagbearer post. Should he win the PDP candidature, he will face President Buhari who has already declared that he would be seeking re-election.   Bukola Saraki, Nigeria's third-highest ranking politician, quits the ruling party. South Sudan rebel chief approves peace agreement marking end of negotiations.