An exclusive experience of Korean arts is taking place at the Nairobi National Museum. Korean Fantasy: Pomp, Horizon and Splendour is a photo exhibition featuring three renowned Korean photographers. It is on until the end of August. Organised by the Korean embassy, the exhibition of untitled pictures presents various aspects of Korean culture, landscape and architecture. Photographer Yang Jae-moon presents images of dancing women in colourful dresses and neatly coiffed hair on white backgrounds. Korean dance is characterised by elegance and grace, emphasised by the billowing silhouettes of their long traditional dresses. Yang Jae-moon has photographed the dancers using a slow-shutter speed that deliberately creates blurred images. This way, you feel the motion of the solo dancers. You can imagine the music too. In another large, wide photograph Jae-moon showcases a group of female dancers in bright pink and lemon-green robes. It seems to be a more buoyant performance, gestures further emphasised by the trailing colours from hands waving wands. In the vivid blur, you can just about see smiling faces, which adds joyfulness to a vibrant scene. From movement we move to stillness in Chunho Won’s black-and-white images of traditional Korean houses in wintertime. He focuses on the pagoda roofs with their ridged tiles. The blanket of snow highlights the roof edges, upturned eaves and carved figurines, and emphasises neat lines and graceful curves. Stalks of bamboo are draped with snow. The viewer also perceives the quietness that accompanies a fresh snowfall. B.T. Kim has lived in Kenya for 25 years and is known for his African wilderness photos taken at dawn or twilight. For Korean Fantasy, Kim focuses on trees during winter. His large monochrome photos show heavy, dark trunks surrounded by a web of slender, leafless branches illuminated by a gentle winter sun. Other photos have completely black backgrounds with skinny white twigs and red dots, perhaps denoting flower buds or fruits. The photos seem to express hope and new life arising after the dead of winter. Kim’s explanation is that, “darkness is the source of things and light is the beginning of all.” With all the subtle nuances and senses aroused by the various photographs, perhaps the show should have been subtitled “Passion, reflection and sentiments.”   Ugandan president seems to have failed to figure out why the public is rallying around the MP. Ex-Ugandan police chief faces the death penalty if convicted.