Generally I dislike gold paint, or any metallic paint, in works of art. In much contemporary art it has become a handy go-to for a touch of glamour; an easy fix. In fact, it tends to cheapen what it is intended to enrich and simply highlights a lack of imagination — and a weak palette — on the artists’ part. But as with all generalisations there are exceptions. The obvious ones are the use of gold in Renaissance altarpieces, or mediaeval manuscripts and Indian miniatures where it speaks of reverence and embellishes with respectful authority. I also like it when used by the East African Neo-Expressionist Ehoodi Kichapi, whose flashing arcs of cellulose spray add a glitzy urgency. And this past week I found another artist using gold — thick dribbles and succulent slabs of it — to echo both the opulence of Haile Selassie’s court and the sentiment this painting expressed so eloquently. Viscous gold was brushed over a large canvas bearing 20 black and white silk-screened portraits of the Lion of Judah… five strokes vertically down the canvas and one an open loop, disrupting the rigid grid. These gestural marks added magnificence and dynamism to the painting, while its visual depth was further enhanced by an overlaid matrix of fine lines, created by a laser. The effect was an unexpected and powerful combination of the lean and the sumptuous; and it was the application of gold over the spare monochrome portraits that we have to thank for that. Called Keep Good Relations, it was a timely reminder of the importance of solicitude, and the choice of Haile Selassie as its subject was a tribute to a man the artist sees as an iconic figure in African co-operation and advancement. The painting, all 150cm x 120cm of it, was the work of Mwini Mutuku, based at the Kuona arts centre since 2014, and it is part of the Manjano exhibition at the Village Market, Nairobi, until April 5. Manjano, now in its ninth edition, is a juried competition open to paintings, sculptures and mixed media, and is organised by the GoDown Arts Centre, based in the capital’s Industrial Area. Omosh Kindeh Mutuku has another work in the show, a similarly sized painting hung opposite Keep Good Relations, and it constituted another tribute; this time to the artist Omosh Kindeh, who died in 2015 aged only 35. Kindeh, a man generous with his time and unfailingly helpful to other artists, is commemorated with bold sweeps of blues and red in a painting that contained references to his obsession with Nairobi’s highrise apartments. A typical painting of the inner city estates by Kindeh was the outright winner of a previous Manjano — yet inexplicably Mutuku’s Haile Selassie painting was not given even a runner-up prize in the current edition, let alone crowned the outright winner it clearly should have been. Not only that, but both his paintings were stuck away in corners of the exhibition hall — carved out of the first floor car park at Village Market — instead of being given the prominence they deserved. What they did give first prize to, in the professional category, was a collage as big as Mutuku’s pieces, called Pata Potea, after the street game of chance. Looming darkly on an outside wall it was admittedly a striking work that, curiously like the Mutuku, featured repeated heads each around A4 size, and deserved some sort of recognition. First prize among the students went to Hesbon Okoth’s Nduthi Nation, an interesting acrylic composed across five canvases. However, what the judges also failed to reward were any of the surprisingly large number of prints on show. Most were woodcuts and they included a pithy series of city monuments by Rebecca Bulimo. Best among all the woodcuts was Rule by the Gun, by Ngugi Waweru, notable for its sinuously bound central figure, rich textures and intense colouring. A very fine work — and again no prize. Of course, one of the pleasures of visiting a competitive art exhibition is to disagree with the judges and damn them all as myopic fools. And in this case deservedly so. How could they disregard the quiet majesty, technical skill and assured composition of Mwini Mutuku’s Keep Good Relations? I do not know. #puregold.   All that glisters is not gold, it’s true. State-owned entities channelled trillions of shillings into ghost ventures. They have been fighting for a place at the table as they continue to prove themselves.