"There are times when my father’s absence is as heavy as a child sitting on my chest.” This is the weighty opener to the book Anatomy of a Disappearance, by Libyan-American author Hisham Matar. It tells the story of a young man in Egypt whose life is shaped by loss and lack of closure. The year is 1971 and 12-year-old Nuri el-Alfi, the narrator, lives in Cairo with his father Kamal, a former government minister from an unnamed country. Nuri is lonely since his unhappy mother died of illness when he was just eight years old. His father is emotionally aloof and leads a mysterious life linked to his radical political leanings, which young Nuri does not fully understand. Only the nanny, Naima, who has been with the family since before Nuri was born, brings some comfort to the young boy. Life changes drastically when Nuri and his father meet a young woman called Mona during a beach holiday in Alexandria. From the start, Nuri is fascinated with her and so is his father. Within a year, Kamal marries Mona who is 15 years his junior, partly to give Nuri a mother-figure. Nuri’s infatuation with Mona continues even when he is sent to boarding school in England. He eagerly awaits the holidays when he can see his stepmother, and he is jealous of his father’s marriage to her. But when Kamal is kidnapped in unclear circumstances in Switzerland, 14-year old Nuri’s world comes crashing down. The inappropriate relationship between Nuri with his stepmother creates intrigue in the early part of the book. Flashbacks reveal family secrets. But the real angst for me was trying to understand the circumstances of Kamal’s abduction, which is where the real story is. Personal experience Matar puts in a lot of detailed observation, like ferocious mountains or whiffs of Nuri’s father in the underside of a leather strap. However, I would have liked more resolution by the end of the book, which sometimes reads like a biography. It turns out that the unresolved issues in the book reflect the author’s own personal experiences. Born in New York City when his father was working for the United Nations, Matar and his family returned to Libya when he was three years old. But six years later they fled to Egypt because of political oppression during Muammar Gaddafi’s rule. When Matar was a college student in the UK, his father was arrested and jailed by Libyan authorities and was never seen again. Anatomy of a Disappearance is set primarily in Egypt and Europe, but speaks often about “our country”, a reference to Libya that remains close to the author’s heart. The language is delicately beautiful despite the sadness of the tale. It reveals the emotional struggle of a youth who barely knew his father yet deeply mourns his absence. “Most men spend a lifetime trying to understand their fathers,” notes the Swiss man investigating Kamal’s disappearance. The book is also a review of the modern history of Libya and other Arab countries that have gone through authoritarian leadership. Harassment, exile and disappearance of Gaddafi critics were not unusual, and Matar gives insights into ordinary Libyans who dared to stand up to tyranny long before the Arab Spring of 2011. Matar’s first book In the Country of Men was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize. He returned to the theme of his father in the memoir The Return, which won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for a biography.   ‘Anatomy of a Disappearance’ reveals the emotional struggle of a youth. Gov't proposals and those of the opposition continues to widen amidst international pressure. State-owned entities channelled trillions of shillings into ghost ventures.