What’s the point of luxury? It is defined by the Oxford Dictionary as a state of great comfort or elegance, especially when involving great expense. Great expense is relative, as is comfort and elegance. In Africa, luxury does not mean the same things as it does in the rest of the world. This was the gist of a panel discussion on the perception and consumption of luxury in East Africa this past Tuesday in Nairobi. Panelists were drawn from Mercedes, Panesar, Ipsos Synovate and Moët & Chandon, and was moderated by Michael Mwai from The Luxury Network Kenya. Ian Middleton, the managing director of DT Dobie that holds the Mercedes franchise in Kenya, described luxury as superior choice and value: Choice over real versus fake. He said that in the region, luxury is relative. In some areas water and electricity are considered luxuries. Thus people have to determine what their necessities are, what they can afford, and what they aspire to. Aggrey Oriwo, the managing director of Ipsos East Africa, said that Africans traditionally associated luxury with having plenty to eat, so the rich man was identified by his large belly. Champagne is also associated with luxury and celebration. Pierre-Louis Araud from Moet & Chandon, who hosted the breakfast, said that champagne can be served with any meal, and consumed at any time of the day. Champagne came to East Africa more than a century ago with the Europeans. In the region, Kenya is the largest market for Moet, showing double digit growth over the past few years. Araud, who had just returned from Tanzania the day before, said the regional market is dynamic, with a consumers showing a preference for their sweeter champagne. But who exactly is the luxury market targeting in East Africa? Oriwo referred to them as “henrys” — high earners not yet rich. These are people who have come into money recently, the nouveau riche, looking to experience the finer things in life. Araud’s strategy is to find his target market at restaurants, clubs, safari lodges and on social media.   State-owned entities channelled trillions of shillings into ghost ventures. They have been fighting for a place at the table as they continue to prove themselves.