In 2003, three girls in their 20s took Kenya’s music scene by storm, releasing several hit songs that received massive airplay and became club anthems. They were the country’s most famed girl music group, Tatuu. Tatuu is from the Swahili word “tatu” meaning three; these were Angela Ndambuki, Angela Mwandanda and Debbie Asila. The trio met and started out as dancers at the Phoenix Players in Nairobi, where they took part in musicals. They later decided to pursue singing. In their short-lived music careers, they released other singles including Haiya, Yuwapi (a collaboration with AY), Jua inanyesha, Songea, Solophobia (with Ulopa Ngoma), Come Back To Me, Be There (with Chris Adwar) and Sijamuona (with Jua Cali) before professional careers and other commitments slowed them and eventually they broke up. Ndambuki was born in Mombasa, the last born in a family of six, and raised in Nairobi where she attended Aga Khan Primary School and Loreto High School Limuru, on the outskirts of Nairobi. “I wrote Teso, our first single, during my final week in International Law class at the University of Nairobi, 2003, where I was an undergraduate law student,” says Ndambuki, who is now the chief executive officer of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “When we started we had a lot of time on our hands but other commitments kicked including family and we could not balance that with full time careers as singers,” she says. In between, she met and married Roy Mutungi and they have two daughters. Having gone slow on music to advance her legal career, Ndambuki started out at the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights before moving to the Property Rights Intellectual Society of Kenya where she rose to be the CEO in 2012. “After completing my master’s degree I felt I needed something more challenging and that’s when the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry came calling,” she said. Ndambuki holds a Bachelor of Law from the University of Nairobi (2003) and a Master’s in Intellectual Property Law from the University of Edinburgh (2015). ------------------------------------------------------ What is your off-duty passion? Music and theatre. I have always loved the arts as it enables us to lose ourselves in the moment and embrace our happy side. Society too appreciates and supports those talented in these arts. What signifies your personal style? I have to say chic. For work I keep it strictly business attire in heels. I love earth colours although this changes depending on my mood and the weather. I prefer casual wear of jeans or tights and chic tops with sneakers for weekends. How do you manage your wardrobe? I always ensure I have blazers, white shirts, scarves, cigarette pants, jeans, tights and a few evening pieces. I’m not into accessories apart from simple earrings. What’s your typical day like? I wake up at around 5am to get ready and drop the kids in school and be in the office between 6:30am and 7:30am. Meetings largely make up the rest of the day. At exactly 5pm, I leave for home. How do you unwind from a busy week? By spending time with my family. It is therapeutic. What is your leadership style? Teamwork. I have an open door policy that helps me interact with every member of my team. As a leader, you’re only as strong as your weakest link. Any challenges? Teamwork calls for everyone to do their part towards achieving a certain goal. It is a challenge when some people need to be followed or pushed around and you have to spend your time chaperoning them. I find this a waste of time and energy that can be expended in doing other things. What is your advice to young women aspiring for public leadership? Leadership is about service and not being the boss. Like the shepherd in the Bible, you have to lead from the front, and be a good example. Be ready to listen to other people’s opinions and embrace them if they are better than yours. Where in East Africa are you most likely to spend your weekend? The Kenyan coast. I always marvel at what nature has to offer; beaches, blending of cultures, ample businesses opportunities, the hospitality as well as the ambience. Do you have a must-visit list? Reykjavik, Iceland, to see the northern lights. From the pictures they are quite something so I can only imagine how mind-blowing it would be to see them. What, in your view, is East Africa’s greatest strength? We are blessed with the best geographical position, being midway from any point to the world thus we can trade with the East and West during their business hours. This gives us an edge in terms of geographical hub placement. What is the most thoughtful gift you have received? A Bible. This gift has reminded me of my deep rooted ethos as I go around my professional life and helped me to remain true to myself, friends, family and most importantly God. Many people get lost to the world due to lack of guidance or bad mentorship but the Bible provides answers that people or books cannot deliver. Any book on your reading list currently? Hillary Clinton’s What Happened. Failure or perceived failure teaches us painful but better lessons than success. Recovering from what could be the epitome of failure, it is interesting to read how you can always bounce back and stand on your feet. What is your best collection? Clothes by Ted Baker and Coast, and locally by Vivo Wear. What movie has impacted you the most? Primal Fear, the 1996 American crime-thriller film starring Richard Gere and Edward Norton. I guess it reminds me that not everyone should be taken at face value since I tend to be too trusting. Since you obviously love music, what is your favourite genre? It’s really difficult to pick a genre. If I must, I would say the andante [slow tempo] across various genres from Kenyan music to R&B. What is a constant in your fridge? Milk. My children and I love it.   Angela Ndambuki is one of the few young female chief executives in Kenya. But the dithering of Nigeria and South Africa dampens the optimism. The AfCFTA faces hurdles, but Donald Kaberuka remains optimistic.