Cases of diabetes among children are increasing, posing a public health problem. The Minister of Health Diane Gashumba raised the alarm during her speech at the fourth annual East African Diabetes Study Group Congress — a regional scientific conference on diabetes. According to official figures, national diabetes prevalence is three per cent, but some experts said the figure could be higher as some people don’t get checked to know their health status and the survey was conducted four years ago. Dr Gashumba said, “The incidence of diabetes among children is alarming and there is an urgent need to deal with the disease.” There are no current statistics, but the Rwanda Diabetes Association, which deals with people living with diabetes, said 1,540 of its members are children. Challenge Crispin Gishoma, the association’s director told Rwanda Today, providing healthcare for children with diabetes is complicated as they are dependant on caregivers. “If the caregivers are poor you can imagine how tough it is for them to provide the treatment needed,” said Mr Gishoma. Children living with diabetes need insulin, regular monitoring of their blood sugar levels, diet and exercise. Wenceslaus Sseguya, a dietitian at the East Africa Diabetes Group secretariat told Rwanda Today the stable supply of insulin is one of the key healthcare challenges for treating children with diabetes. According to the World Diabetes Atlas, about 1,918 deaths per year are related to diabetes in Rwanda. However, medical experts say if the disease is detected, treated and well managed with quality care, persons with diabetes can lead a healthy, active lifestyle. Mr Gishoma said those with diabetes should access healthcare services for free due to their high cost. Chronic disease “Even if many people have the community health insurance, because the disease is chronic, it remains a huge burden for families. Some People end up selling their properties to pay for the medical expenses,” said Mr Gishoma. The Rwanda Diabetes Association estimates that people living with disease spend an average Rwf60,000 a month on medical services. However, awareness about the disease is still low among families and communities. The stigma linked to childhood diabetes makes it harder for children with the chronic disease. The Rwanda Association of Diabetes said children should be supported in all ways. Despite being preventable , experts call on the public to consistently check their health status and avoid lifestyles that could contribute to diabetes such as increasing rates of f   More than 14 million people have been diagnosed with the disease in the continent. Kigali and Dar to give the Central Corridor a competitive edge over the Northern Corridor. Private sector expects trade agreement to address continental tariff and non-tariff barriers.