One of his lawyers, Mr Nelson Havi, confirmed that Dr Miguna was taken out of Kenya via a Dubai-bound EK722 flight. Kenya opposition firebrand politician Dr Miguna Miguna has been deported, again, despite a court order directing the government to release him from detention at Jomo Kenyatta airport in Nairobi. The fiery lawyer and National Super Alliance (Nasa) activist was ejected on Wednesday evening after spending more than 72 hours in a tiny room he described as a "toilet" near Terminal 2.   One of his lawyers, Mr Nelson Havi, said Dr Miguna was taken out of Kenya via a Dubai-bound EK722 flight. Lawyer Cliff Ombeta, who also represented Dr Miguna, confirmed that his client was deported to Dubai. He alleged that Dr Miguna “was sedated, handcuffed and taken away”.   The Nation could not immediately confirm that allegation as the airport was on police lockdown on Wednesday night, with police in full combat gear purging journalists and lawyers who attempted to access Dr Miguna. The lawyers had gone to the airport to serve court orders directing his release when they were roughed up. Some sources claimed the exit Dr Miguna, the self-declared ‘general’ of the National Resistance Movement (NRM), a wing of the Nasa formed to champion resistance against products of firms deemed friendly and financiers of the ruling Jubilee government, was facilitated by Canada. “Canada was strict on flying rules which he obeyed,” the source told the Nation. Dual citizenship The lawyer holds Canadian citizenship and has denied government claims that he acquired it after ceasing to be a Kenyan in 1998. Dr Miguna, who ran for Nairobi governorship in Kenya's August 8, 2017 General Election and has two homes, one in the capital and the other in Nyando, Kisumu County, insists he is a Kenyan by birth. Flight EK722 was destined for United Arab Emirate (UAE), a country Dr Miguna flatly rejected to be flown to on Monday night. Earlier Wednesday, High Court Judge George Odunga had ordered Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, Immigration chief Gordon Kihalang’wa and Police boss Joseph Boinnet to release Dr Miguna from detention at JKIA, an order they defied. "The three are hereby convicted accordinglyand should appear before this court tomorrow at 10am,” Justice Odunga ruled. Judge Odunga criticised the three officials for disobeying the court with impunity. In their defence, two junior State lawyers claimed the trio were unreachable because they were attending a General Service Unit graduation. Reported by Fred Mukinda, Leopold Obbi and Harry Misiko.   Defiant opposition politician disembarks from Dubai-bound plane in night of drama at JKIA. Kenyan government has released $530,000 compensation package for the loss. The rare inter-Korean summit comes after Kim's international debut surprise trip to China.