Uber is set to launch its food delivery service in Nairobi this year, aiming to ride on a fast-expanding online food order and delivery market presently dominated by local courier firms. Uber Eats operates in 200 cities around the globe and partners with more than 80,000 restaurants, presently. “After three years of making safe and affordable rides available at the touch of a button, Uber has announced its continued investment in East Africa with the forthcoming launch of Uber Eats in Kenya,” said Uber spokesperson East Africa Janet Kemboi in a statement. “The global food delivery app — that makes getting great food as simple as requesting a ride — will add Nairobi to its menu of more than 200 cities around the world later this year.” Ms Kemboi did not provide the exact date for the launch or which restaurants the firm would partner with. “While we can’t share an exact date, we look forward to bringing food delivery at the push of a button to Kenya in the coming months,” she said. “We are in discussion with a number of local and national restaurant partners in Kenya. We look forward to sharing more details soon.” Ms Kemboi added that there was a huge demand in Nairobi for the service. “We have been overwhelmed by the response from local residents who want access to flexible work and we urge anyone interested in delivering with Uber Eats to earn some extra money to get in touch,” she said. Launched two years ago, Uber Eats seeks to capitalise on demand for convenience from users. Other players in the sector include Hello Food, Jumia Food and Yum Kenya among others. In 2016, restaurant chain, KFC and South Africa’s chain of sea food restaurant, Ocean Basket partnered with online platform Hellofood to sell food online. Hellofood would under the deal deliver food bought from the two restaurants on its online platform to customers across Nairobi.   The food buzz is reaching its peak as the end-of-year festivities kick in. Africa’s old friends, the West, and new ones, China, do not care if freedom and democracy in Mystery as airline's employee takes a plunge from aircraft.