During the week of March 12, Uganda’s long suffering opposition parties and allied groups that spend a lot of their time thinking of how to remove President Yoweri Museveni from power had reason to celebrate. In a predictably bruising parliamentary by-election in Jinja, Uganda’s second largest town, they unsurprisingly defeated a candidate of the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM) party, whose previous victory had been annulled by a court on account of electoral malpractices. The contest was bruising because, as has now become customary, the ruling party gets rather vicious and plays rough once it smells defeat. The approach it adopts as a result, reminds one of the old soccer metaphor: Playing the man if you miss the ball. That they lost was hardly surprising because many voters in Uganda’s urban areas will more readily vote for a tree stump or stay away altogether than vote for a ruling party candidate. The opposition has little if anything to offer by way of policy alternatives. However, at least voting for it helps convey a message to the ruling party and its leadership. The message is that they are different from peasants. It is well known that many peasants are happy to “sell” their votes. Others believe that not voting for the NRM is to risk too much in terms of opportunities foregone. 'Nothing to offer' Here the idea is that given that the NRM is in power, it has “all the money” and decides who gets what and who does not, and therefore voting for the opposition who have nothing to offer is not smart. This is a belief President Museveni often conveys in his speeches on the campaign trail. He warns voters against electing candidates who do not get on well with him and who therefore do not have access to him, saying; “I am the one who has money.” Long accustomed to not depending on the government for most of what they need to get by, urban voters can afford to thumb their noses at that. There are exceptions, of course. Sometimes ruling party candidates win in urban areas. Anecdotal evidence suggests it happens only where candidates have personal attributes that endear them to the voters, in which case they win on the basis of individual merit, or it could be due to a peculiar factor that sometimes explains unexpected victories: Rigging. In a sense this shows the degree to which competitive elections in Uganda prove one point about inter-party competition in much of Africa: It is rarely among political parties that are distinguishable from each other by way of policy positions on certain issues, usually bread and butter ones. Rather, it is among organisations whose ability or inability to win depends on how much their opponents are hated, usually for reasons that have nothing to do with how well they govern or respond to popular aspirations or how likely they are to do so if elected. One question local commentators have been grappling with is, what the victory of an opposition-supported candidate means and whether opposition groups ought to be celebrating it at all. Advantage Clearly, in a country where the ruling party enjoys every advantage and wins most of the elections and by-elections, no one should begrudge the opposition their joy whenever they are able to pull off a victory. As to what victories such as the recent one mean; not much. For one thing, large numbers of voters who won’t be caught dead voting for the ruling party, stay away from the polls, meaning they won’t vote for the opposition either. Usually more than half the electorate don’t vote. Opposition victories would be profound if the habitual absentees turned up to vote for them. Moreover, Uganda’s opposition parties are notoriously incapable of coalescing around common agendas and finding ways of sticking together in pursuit of common objectives however protracted their pursuit might be. Although parliamentary elections usually attract many opposition activists from the different parties, they come together not as representatives of parties which would have officially and collectively agreed to offer support, but as freelancers who are keen to show their individual faces than wave their party flags. Asked why he had not gone to Jinja to support “the opposition candidate” during the campaigns, when some of his colleagues had gone, an official of a small opposition party stated: “We never discussed it in the party. If we had, I would have opposed it.” Opposition victories cannot be profound until the parties with the common objective of dislodging the NRM from power learn to co-operate as political organisations and assume responsibility for deploying their individual members officially to work for and support a common effort. As long as seemingly collective efforts are a matter of “to whom it may concern,” where individuals can choose what to do or not do depending on their moods at any one moment or their personal whims as their party leaderships look on with a sense of detachment, opposition victories will remain meaningless in terms of their long-term implications for Uganda’s political evolution. Frederick Golooba-Mutebi is a Kampala- and Kigali-based researcher and writer on politics and public affairs. E-mail: fgmutebi@yahoo.com   Media house rues resignation of 8 columnists. The stations ignored incessant warnings against advertising and promoting witchcraft.