Layla walked briskly into the lobby of the imposing brick and glass building. There was nothing unusual about her or her demeanour. It was how she always walked into the building; the usual quick smile she flashed to the guard. Nothing she did stood out; nothing about her was particularly memorable that morning. Routine was a skill, a way of hiding in plain sight, of not calling attention to herself despite the fact that she wasn’t plain at all. She was noticeable, beautiful with large eyes under thick sweeping lashes. But she was too quiet for anyone to take notice of her, almost shy yet there was a confidence about her. Getting to her office on the fourth floor, she shut the door and sank into her chair behind an imposing solid wood desk. Sighing, she stretched, her eyes closing as she counted down to the beginning of her day, four… three… two… She popped open her laptop and began to reply to a stream of emails as the floor outside her office slowly came alive as people flocked in. As was her routine, at exactly eight she came out of her office to catch up with her team, nodded to the other managers, then went back in, where it was expected she would not emerge until lunch hour. Shutting her door, Layla quietly turned the latch and locked it. She kicked off her shoes, pulled down her skirt and took off her crisp black shirt, throwing it over her chair. Standing in knee-length biker shorts and a black tank top, she flexed her shoulders and arms, inhaled and focused on the task at hand. Setting the timer on her watch for 10 minutes, she pressed start, climbed onto her desk, pushed aside an air vent in the ceiling and pulled herself into the ventilation duct. “Right… left twice then a right…” she murmured as she shuffled along, her slim frame an easy fit in the tight space. Every now and then she came across an air vent she had to slide over, giving her the chance to make sure she was going the right way and also to ensure that everyone was blissfully unaware of what was happening just a few feet above their heads. Two minutes… Coming to a junction in the air ducts, Layla paused, turned left and found herself above a dim room filled with beeping machines. The data control room. “Here we go,” she said to herself. She was just about to open the vent when two dark figures passed underneath it. Guards! Of course, she mentally kicked herself, what did you expect? Data worth millions virtually unprotected? Four minutes… Breathing deeply to steel herself, she worked it out in her mind’s eye so that when she pushed open the vent and leaped to the ground she was as prepared as they were surprised. Kicking out at the first guard, she hit him in the throat cutting off his shout and knocking him to the ground. However, his colleague was much quicker. Recognising that he couldn’t take on this shadow ninja that had appeared seemingly out of nowhere, he ran to the other end of the room screaming into his radio. “Help! Help! Data control room…Heeelp!” Layla started to give chase then realised she didn’t have the time. Calming her nerves, she closed her eyes and saw the blueprint that she had memorised. Then she ran, counting her steps as she pulled out a tiny flash disk from the bun in her hair, stopping with a start at one of the many identical machines lined up in neat rows. Working fast, she plugged the tiny device in and began downloading data. There was nothing but a gentle hum and beep in the dimly lit room that was sound-proof. She knew a lot about this room and the firm that she had infiltrated. Espionage came naturally to her. The moment the drive turned green indicating her work was done, it was in her hands and she was moving. Six minutes… A second later would have been too late for, as she pulled herself back up into the air duct, a group of armed men burst into the room. Layla had been in tighter situations so she was calm as she snaked her way back through the narrow ducts as quietly and quickly as possible. The job was done. The rest would be easy. Reaching her office she dropped down, whipped on her clothes, clambered onto her desk and hastily pulled the vent cover back into place. She re-arranged her hair and tucked the drive back into the coiffed bun at the back of her head. Then she unlocked her door and sat down at her desk. Eight minutes… **************************** The building was on lockdown; everyone was to be questioned before being allowed to leave, even as they desperately searched the air ducts for this mystery “ninja”, according to the slightly incoherent guards. “You’re the human resources manager, right? Can anyone account for your movements today?” A hawkish detective asked her, pacing up and down in her office. “Yes,” Layla replied her eyes wide, innocent and captivating, “Well… I did my usual rounds with my team this morning...” “No one’s seen you since?” “I…” Layla trailed off. The detective stood in the now empty co-work space with the rest of the senior management team. “We have almost all managers and senior staff unaccounted for… Maybe a quick run through of whom we can dismiss, and who stays on the watch list?” He began rattling off names. “James?” “Too hefty to fit in a vent…” “Tony?” “Mhmm…” “Amber?” “Too old…” “Layla?” “A ninja-like spy?...” There was a laugh and murmurs of resounding agreement. “No, she’s too normal…” ******Editor's Note: Are you an unpublished aspiring writer? You may send your 1500-word fiction short story to eastafrican@ke.nationmedia.com   State-owned entities channelled trillions of shillings into ghost ventures. They have been fighting for a place at the table as they continue to prove themselves.