An exciting development on the regional arts scene can be revealed Saturday with the unofficial unveiling of a new artwork entitled Mental Sculpture No 1.It is the first of a series of three pieces by the Kenyan sculptor and graffiti specialist Mwangi Onyango. The concept of the work is of a carefully controlled empty space upon which viewers are able to project their own ideas, hopes and dreams. It is said to be suitable for either indoor or outdoor display. Each of the three sculptures, which by their nature cannot be numbered, comes with an easily detachable custom-made plinth, so the work can be taken anywhere with its owner and adjusted to any position to allow a multiplicity of exhibition options. The sculptures are also presented with series of preparatory sketches resembling blank sheets of paper of various textures and colours on which the artist projected his original idea. They ensure a vital historic interaction between sculpture and owner and an interpolation of conceptualism between the artist and viewers. Surrounding each piece should be a three dimensional space in which the viewer can project their thoughts to interrogate the artist’s intentions and investigate the success of the work; thus creating a vibrant and sustainable debate about the future of conceptual art. With each sculpture is offered a signed certificate of ownership and pair of museum quality white gloves for handling. Physical interaction with the sculpture, the artist says, is an important part of the work and the gloves ensure it does not become tainted during this process. Art critic of The EastAfrican Frank Whalley (pictured appraising the sculpture) commented: “I was impressed by this sculpture’s ability to expand to fill the room or contract to sit on a thimble, depending on the viewer’s state of mind.” He continued: “As an example of stealth sculpture, it will remain forever a perfect exposition of spatial negativity with its overarching theme of the nothingness of concrete form echoing the emptiness within us all.” And he concluded: “This brilliant work must surely stand as an enduring minus sign in the history of art.” The sculptures are to be launched on Sunday, April 1, at the National Museum of Kenya on Museum Hill, Nairobi, with a cocktail party to which the president and other VIPs have been invited. Distinguished guests are expected to include Frances Morris the director of the Tate Modern gallery from the UK, the avant garde international sculptor Anish Kapoor and Mrs Wanjiku Mwangi, the artist’s mother who will be accompanied by several street boys as part of the museum’s commitment to an inclusive exhibition programme. Editor’s note: Let us know what you think of this ingenious concept. Email: eastafrican@ke.nationmedia.com   State-owned entities channelled trillions of shillings into ghost ventures. They have been fighting for a place at the table as they continue to prove themselves.