Champagne is synonymous with celebration, and Champagne bars with luxury. In Nairobi, Sankara hotel in Westlands opened its Champagne bar in 2012, and the Fairmont Norfolk in 2016. And last week, Kampala Serena Hotel officially unveiled the newly remodelled Pearl of Africa restaurant to include a Champagne bar. This is a new addition to the hotel that has recently completed phase one of the ongoing refurbishment themed “Excellence Redefined”. The first of its kind in Uganda, the bar has the longest Champagne list across East Africa. At the launch, Uganda’s only certified sommelier Celestine helped guests choose Champagne and wine options. The lounge and bar create a unique ambience for discerning travellers who appreciate personalised service. Premium brands that form the vast selection of champagne list include Armand de Brignac, Laurent-Perrier Brut Grand Siecle, Veuve Clicquot Brut, Pommery Brut Royal, and Piper Heidseick Sublime. “The Champagne Bar brings a new experience to the well-seasoned traveller whether on business or pleasure,” Mahmud Janmohamed, the managing director of Serena Hotels, said. Visiting Michelin Star chef Lucas Julien from Auberge du Jeu Paume was at the launch that marked the French Week. Themed “Eat Drink Be French”, French cuisine was served at the Pearl of Africa Restaurant where chef Lucas created tantalising menus using local Ugandan ingredients. “The opening of this outstanding bar is timely as food and wine is an intrinsic part of our culture. Attendees get to learn more about French cuisine and celebrate the origins of champagne,” said Lucas. The Champagne Bar is suitable for corporate and special events, sundowners and birthday parties. It accommodates up to 40 people and opens from Monday to Saturday from 3pm till late. Over the past two years, the Pearl of Africa restaurant has been part of 3,000 restaurants worldwide participating in the French food week Goût de France. In Kenya, participating restaurants were Mdalasini Restaurant, La Belle Restaurant, Tatu Restaurant, Pango Gourment Brasserie in Nairobi, and Tusks Restaurant in Nanyuki.   But the dithering of Nigeria and South Africa dampens the optimism. The AfCFTA faces hurdles, but Donald Kaberuka remains optimistic.