When the noted astrophysicist Stephen Hawking passed away recently, it was warming to see how much press this natural event received. Of all the achievements in his life, the one most appreciated by us laypeople were probably his sense of humour and his ability to sneak out of Cambridge University and try to drag us all along on a celestial journey by popularising one of the most formidable ivory tower endeavours: Physics. He was a friend of ours. Because he dared to join the ranks of popular scientists. When it comes to education, one of the most archaic and harmful practices we have kept going is the separation between the arts and the sciences. Not only has this led to extreme prejudice against the arts, and some rather rigid ways of teaching the sciences, but it also forces people to make what could be considered a false choice. Arguably we have all got a bit of art, and a bit of science within us and the two are not mutually exclusive. Hawking did not have an easy life, but he somehow managed to retain a sense of purpose through its ups and downs. Somewhere in the freedom of intellect his physical challenges disappeared and some pure soul happened. He invested in the idea of human endeavour. Human endeavour is beautiful. If there is one thing we all have in common, it is the moment we look up into the night sky and realise how small we might be. Why are we here? What is that, there, so shiny and bright, and how? And seriously, what is Existence, even? I mean, I know we are supposed to care about fashion and when the next feckless mixtape some dude with horrid shoes is going to drop, but we are all going to die. How is this not more important, seriously, than how many followers you have on social media? We have so many debates about what education is, whether children are intrinsically intelligent or whether training is the trick, et cetera that sometimes I think we lose the point. Hawking was, for me, an example of actual human success. Yes, you get to the top echelons of your field — and then what? You share it, you pass it on, you enrich others. You teach. He knew that not all of us are going to be able to do STEM, but that it was okay: He got our backs. He knew. People are people. They might have a terminal disease. They might be young, or old. They might be blind, a little wrecked by life, touched by the gods, diabetic, blind, albino, on the spectrum, poor, you name it. Whatever. We all look up to the night sky, breathe in, and think. We all think. We all feel. He knew. He knew. This man whose physical life constricted around him with every passing moment spent his limited time opening up vistas of the universe for the rest of us with wonder. If that’s not poetry, what is? So as he joins the very many teachers of this world who caressed minds for people everywhere without expectation for much else, except maybe fame because he was such a lovable media whore, I give thanks. There is a saying that those who can, do, and those who cannot, teach. What a ludicrous notion. Those who can, do and then the better ones teach because they know. They know what’s up. They look up to the night skies sometimes and embrace the questions about the meaning of life and they think about all the books and people in their lives who were generous with knowledge and then they try to pass it on. Elsie Eyakuze is an independent consultant and blogger for The Mikocheni Report, http://mikochenireport.blogspot.com. E-mail: elsieeyakuze@gmail.com   Media house rues resignation of 8 columnists. The stations ignored incessant warnings against advertising and promoting witchcraft.