Born into a French family of chefs, Julien Lucas says that he had no option but to become one. He grew up near Sarreguemines in northeastern France, where he spent his weekends and holidays learning how to cook by his father’s side at their family-owned restaurant. “I am a fourth generation chef in my family. My father owns a restaurant that was started by my grandfather,” Lucas said. As to the French dish he likes preparing the most, he said: “Seasonal products like asparagus and mushroom.” At 31, Lucas is the chef des cuisines at the Auberge Jeu de Paume Hostel owned by the Aga Khan Development Network. Lucas brought a taste of French culinary adventure to Uganda at the French Week held from March 19 to 24. “This is my first time in Uganda and Africa. I hope to return. I will be at the Nairobi Serena Hotel in Kenya this August.” Fine dining The starters were light beef jelly with cauliflower and caviar; roasted foie gras, mashed caramelised turnip, daikon pickle, scallops and watercress. The main course options were line-caught sea bass with la brie lentils, and pan-seared milk-fed veal with celery and candied lemon. For dessert there was grand cru chocolate with picardie chicory; or tangerine with pistachio cream. “The fine dining experience has largely been borrowed from the French gastronomic heritage. We brought Julien Lucas here for the French Week and for the opening of remodelled Pearl of Africa Restaurant and Champagne Bar,” deputy general manager of Kampala Serena Hotel, Edwin Chemisto said. The Champagne Bar has the longest champagne list in Uganda. “We have over 20 brands of champagne that include, Moët & Chandon Brut, Dom Perignon 2006, Pommery Brut Royal, Prosecco Luxury Vintage 2016, Piper Heidsieck Sublime, Demi Sec, and Veuve Clicquot Rose,” sommelier Celestine Masiga said. “The Pearl of Africa Restaurant has a piano, a Champagne bar and a terrace from where you can view the lush green gardens below. Chefs in France would love to work in a restaurant like this,” Lucas said. “I have tasted the Ugandan steamed matooke and yams and I love it served with groundnut sauce,” he added. “The preparation of food in Uganda is different. For example, the way you prepare fresh fish and vegetables here is not the same as in France. We cook the fish very slowly on low heat. “In France, while the customer is eating the starter the chef is cooking the fish. In Uganda, the food is cooked in advance. To keep the aroma fresh in fish, meat or vegetables, you have to serve it immediately after it is ready. It is not good to prepare fish for 20 minutes before serving it. Some type of fish may take five or 10 minutes,” Lucas added. First job Lucas’s first job cooking was with Chef Joel Robuchon at L’Atelier. A few years later, he rejoined him as chef in Monaco. He then spent three years with Eric Frechon at the Epicure Bristol Hotel in Paris, and later joined Alain Ducasse in London at the Spoon, whom he eventually relocated with to his restaurant at the Eiffel Tower. At the end of 2014, he joined the Relais Bernard Loiseau alongside Patrick Bertron as sous-chef. Lucas joined the Auberge Jeu de Paume Hostel last October. “I have been a Michelin One Star Chef for four months now. When you’re a One Star Chef you’re part of the best 600 restaurants in France and you’re among the best chefs.” “I want to become a Two Star Chef, which means that I have to maintain a high level of creativity and consistency. The Three Star is the highest rank of professional chefs,” he said. Lucas does not wear the traditional chef’s hat, calling it “old fashioned.”   State-owned entities channelled trillions of shillings into ghost ventures. They have been fighting for a place at the table as they continue to prove themselves.