Kenyan-born wildlife artist Guy Combes is presenting his first solo exhibition at Nairobi’s Polka Dot Gallery until the end of March. Expecting yet another group of animal illustrations, I was immediately struck by the broader narrative he describes. You get a sense of the habitat, the weather and the mood of the animal. A large painting titled Misanthrope is of a solitary buffalo standing in a patch of bamboo trees. The buffalo’s ill-tempered look matches the dark forest lit only by narrow shafts of sunlight. “Behavioural characteristics are personality traits, and the environment becomes a part of the story. Personal encounters with wildlife are the most important and crucial parts of my creative process,” says Combes. He takes photographs, makes sketches and engages in “prolonged contemplation” in the wild. Another refined aspect of his realistic drawings is the detail captured, like the three grey-crowned cranes in Incroyables. In the uplifted wings of the middle bird you can see the individual brown and white feathers over its grey body, with a bright red throat pouch, all framed by tawny grass. Pilgrims Crossing is a painting of a herd of bachelor impala. Every curve of their twisted horns, the waves of fur and dark striations on their russet brown coats is clearly portrayed. “Much of my creative journey has been about experimentation,” says Combes. There is a portrait of two giraffes against a sapphire blue sky, with sharp spikes painted behind the animals. Another is of a zebra set against a startling red background with a blue circle around its head. This different style of combining realism and symmetrical forms comes from his design background. Combes explained, “I have long aspired to working with geometric and organic patterns.” On the multitude of wildlife paintings produced in Kenya, Combes expresses concern that talented artists are too focused on creating for the mass tourism market.   But the dithering of Nigeria and South Africa dampens the optimism. The AfCFTA faces hurdles, but Donald Kaberuka remains optimistic.