Kenyan opposition politician Miguna Miguna wants the government to deliver his Kenyan passport to him. The Kenyan passport that Dr Miguna held was confiscated by the government and perforated, saying he acquired it illegally. The impasse was precipitated by his refusal sign immigration papers and have his Canadian passport stamped. Kenyan opposition firebrand politician Dr Miguna Miguna says he is "marooned" in Dubai and wants the government to deliver his Kenyan passport to him. In a statement, Dr Miguna on Friday said he is still unwell after "police" and "state agents" injected him with "unknown chemicals". "I am in great pain, stress and inconvenience. My left hand is still badly swollen. I believe that Jubilee thugs had inserted an IV in it to keep me unconscious for the entire duration of the flight between Nairobi and Dubai," he said. "My left side is extremely painful. I’m yet to get toxicology tests done on the chemicals the state thugs violently and illegally injected me with on Tuesday evening." Passport He reiterated that he would not leave United Arab Emirates for anywhere else but Kenya and asked Interior minister Fred Matiang’i and Immigration Principal Secretary Gordon Kihalangwa to deliver his passport. The Kenyan passport that Dr Miguna held was confiscated by the government and perforated, saying he acquired it illegally. “I don’t have any travel document or passport,” he said. “I need Kihalangwa and Matiang’i to deliver my Kenyan passport to me here in Dubai tomorrow, March 30, 2018, as multiple courts have ordered them to do, so that I can use it to travel to Nairobi immediately.” He asked Dr Matiang'i, Mr Kihalangwa and Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet, who have since been fined Ksh200,000 ($2,000) each for contempt, to comply with High Court orders and facilitate his unconditional return to Nairobi. "I insist that my constitutional right to a Kenyan passport must be respected and upheld. My right to travel in and out of the country freely must also be respected and upheld at all times, in the same manner that these rights apply to all Kenyans equally," he said. He insisted that he would return to Kenya after he is cleared by UAE. "I’m waiting for clearance from the Emirates Air and UAE authorities and an air ticket back to Nairobi. I intend to fly back to Nairobi as soon as possible. It’s my birthright, constitutional and legal right as well," he said. "I will never waive my rights because an authoritarian and barbaric usurpers of power demand or expect that I do." Ejection The lawyer was kicked out of Kenya on Wednesday evening after a 72-hour standoff at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. The impasse was precipitated by his refusal to sign immigration papers and have his Canadian passport stamped. First deported to Canada in February, Dr Miguna claims Kenyan and Canadian citizenship, but the government says he renounced his Kenyan birthright when he acquired his Canadian passport. The High Court in Nairobi has ordered the government to facilitate his return from Toronto to take part in his citizenship case after the Court of Appeal rejected State's request to have the orders suspended. The Department of Immigration had on Tuesday issued application papers to Miguna to enable him start the process of enabling him regain his Kenyan citizenship as ordered by the courts, and to also facilitate his entry into the country after he refused to produce the Canadian passport he had used to travel back to Kenya. Application documents But when the application documents were delivered to him in the presence of the Consular Officer of the Canadian High Commission to Kenya, Ms Fiona Jarvis, Dr Miguna refused to fill in the relevant details and sign the forms. Instead, he tore the official documents and was denied entry. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR), which has been following up and will be filing a report in court, on Thursday said it was disappointed by some of the lawyer’s decisions. “I was disappointed with Dr Miguna because the court order had allowed him to use his Canadian passport to gain entry into the country,” said KNCHR chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori. “I had expected him at least to use it to gain entry into the country, and his refusal boggled us. There were some missteps on both sides.”   Lawyer claims Dr Miguna Miguna “was sedated, handcuffed and taken away”. Kenya, Tanzania, DRC and Zambia lauded for implementing reforms to remove legal barriers to Amnesty International warns deportation would not meet international law requirements.