Marx Rukundo was born and brought up at Makerere University where his parents were lecturers. Academics was therefore taken pretty seriously at home and Rukundo and his five sisters were expected to excel. He attended Buganda Road Primary School and later joined Kings College Budo in 1985 for his “O” levels and Ntare School for his “A” levels. He was admitted to Makerere University, from where he graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce degree in marketing. He worked for the Uganda Electricity Board and British American Tobacco before joining the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, in the UK, for a Master’s degree in finance. He returned to Uganda and joined MTN Uganda, Orange Telecom, and is currently working for Ipsos Uganda. He is divorced and has four children. Rukundo says he has been lucky to have had mentors who provided him with invaluable advice and direction throughout his career. These are his former lecturer Prof Samuel Sejjaka, team leader at Abacus Business School, Robert Kabushenga, the chief executive officer of Vision Group, and Stephen Kauma, the human resource director at Africa Exim Bank, Uganda. Rukundo says that being naturally curious and having studied marketing pulled him into research. He enjoys mathematics, which he says comes in handy in research. He is however dismayed by the fact that local companies consider research an expense rather than an investment and, as such, tend to rely on gut-feelings and hunches to make business decisions, unlike multinationals. The other drawback for companies in Uganda is that not many university students are interested in market research and even fewer consider it a career option. He however feels honoured and privileged for being the team leader of the biggest and most successful research company in Uganda. ---------------------------------------------- What’s your off-duty passion? Reading. It takes up most of my off-duty time. I have also discovered yoga and meditation. What would you have been if you were not into market research? Probably a pilot, a nightclub DJ or a footballer. What signifies your personal style? Simplicity. How do you manage your wardrobe? It is managed by my sister who lives in the UK. She buys all my clothes. While in East Africa, where are you most likely to spend your Saturday afternoon? Having an all-day breakfast at a quiet café while reading a book. I used to watch football but I have given up on supporting premier league club Arsenal. They have not been playing well and it is not worth the stress after a long week. Describe your best destination yet in East Africa? Probably Mutanda Lake Resort in Kisoro in western Uganda. It is quiet, peaceful and has amazing views. How do you unwind after a day’s work? I go somewhere quiet and read a book or magazine and avoid phone calls and all interruptions for about an hour. Do you have a must-visit list? No, but I have a must-do list that includes bungee jumping over the Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe, driving from Cape Town to Cairo, and climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. What would you say is East Africa’s greatest strength? Its diversity, which can be seen in the cultures and the physical features. I believe that if East Africans considered themselves one people, the East African Community would be the most economically successful bloc in Africa. What is your best collection? Books. Jeffrey Archer’s Clifton Chronicles, the John Grisham Collection (a set of nine novels) and Lee Child’s Jack Reacher series. I also have a collection of all the music by the Goodlyfe Crew (Moses Radio and Weasel of Uganda). What’s the most thoughtful gift you have ever received? An Agatha Christie novel, Murder on the Orient Express. It was a gift from my aunt, Dr Grace Kalimugogo, who had noticed my budding love for reading when I was only in Primary Five. I treasure the book to date, because it opened the fascinating world of crime fiction to which I am still hooked. What’s the best gift you have ever given? Paying for my children to attend a football trip in Cape Town, South Africa, last year. What big book you have read recently? Lincoln by Doris Kearns Goodwin. Which film has impacted you the most? I do not recall any particular one although I really enjoy animations such as Lion King, Frozen, Ice Age, Sing, Despicable Me and Puss in Boots, and of course the old classics such as Scooby Doo, Tom and Jerry, Sylvester and Tweety Mysteries. What’s your favourite music? Goodlyfe Crew music. What does not miss in your fridge? Bread and meat.   Profile of the country manager of Ipsos Uganda. State-owned entities channelled trillions of shillings into ghost ventures. They have been fighting for a place at the table as they continue to prove themselves.