The continuing Kampala Art Biennale has been built around an idea as old as art itself, but one its organisers fear has fallen by the wayside following the trend of artists to become, they say, “the solitarian genius who creates masterpieces in the silence of his studio.” The Uganda festival therefore marks what it claims is a return to the system in which an established artist mentors apprentices in the studio; effecting the transfer of knowledge from generation to generation. Seven artists from many disciplines — textiles, bookbinding, drawing, installation, photography, performance and collage — have taken emerging talents into their temporary Kampala studios for hands-on experience and tuition. The promising young Kenyan painter and printmaker Rebecca Bulimo, for instance, has been tutored by the textiles artist Abdoulaye Konate from Mali, which has given her useful exposure to another set of skills and hopefully, lifelong contacts that can only be for the good. However, excellent though this idea most certainly is, I am not certain the Biennale’s thesis stands up to scrutiny. Many artists — in Africa for sure — have always welcomed into their studios creative young people and helped them to develop. Some have gone further and set up studios large enough to take on a succession of students. I am thinking here, also in Uganda, of Collin Sekajugo’s Weaver Bird Community for the Arts at Masaka, and in Tanzania of the commercial studios of the Tingatinga painters of Oyster Bay, in Dar, and the henna-inspired artists at the nearby Vipaji Gallery. In Kenya, there is Patrick Mukabi at the National Railways Museum, Shabu Mwangi’s Wajuuku studio in the Mukuru slum, and the welcoming open-door attch"/>    The continuing Kampala Art Biennale has been built around an idea as old as art itself, but one its organisers fear has fallen by the wayside following the trend of artists to become, they say, “the solitarian genius who creates masterpieces in the silence of his studio.” The Uganda festival therefore marks what it claims is a return to the system in which an established artist mentors apprentices in the studio; effecting the transfer of knowledge from generation to generation. Seven artists from many disciplines — textiles, bookbinding, drawing, installation, photography, performance and collage — have taken emerging talents into their temporary Kampala studios for hands-on experience and tuition. The promising young Kenyan painter and printmaker Rebecca Bulimo, for instance, has been tutored by the textiles artist Abdoulaye Konate from Mali, which has given her useful exposure to another set of skills and hopefully, lifelong contacts that can only be for the good. However, excellent though this idea most certainly is, I am not certain the Biennale’s thesis stands up to scrutiny. Many artists — in Africa for sure — have always welcomed into their studios creative young people and helped them to develop. Some have gone further and set up studios large enough to take on a succession of students. I am thinking here, also in Uganda, of Collin Sekajugo’s Weaver Bird Community for the Arts at Masaka, and in Tanzania of the commercial studios of the Tingatinga painters of Oyster Bay, in Dar, and the henna-inspired artists at the nearby Vipaji Gallery. In Kenya, there is Patrick Mukabi at the National Railways Museum, Shabu Mwangi’s Wajuuku studio in the Mukuru slum, and the welcoming open-door attch"/>    The continuing Kampala Art Biennale has been built around an idea as old as art itself, but one its organisers fear has fallen by the wayside following the trend of artists to become, they say, “the solitarian genius who creates masterpieces in the silence of his studio.” The Uganda festival therefore marks what it claims is a return to the system in which an established artist mentors apprentices in the studio; effecting the transfer of knowledge from generation to generation. Seven artists from many disciplines — textiles, bookbinding, drawing, installation, photography, performance and collage — have taken emerging talents into their temporary Kampala studios for hands-on experience and tuition. The promising young Kenyan painter and printmaker Rebecca Bulimo, for instance, has been tutored by the textiles artist Abdoulaye Konate from Mali, which has given her useful exposure to another set of skills and hopefully, lifelong contacts that can only be for the good. However, excellent though this idea most certainly is, I am not certain the Biennale’s thesis stands up to scrutiny. Many artists — in Africa for sure — have always welcomed into their studios creative young people and helped them to develop. Some have gone further and set up studios large enough to take on a succession of students. I am thinking here, also in Uganda, of Collin Sekajugo’s Weaver Bird Community for the Arts at Masaka, and in Tanzania of the commercial studios of the Tingatinga painters of Oyster Bay, in Dar, and the henna-inspired artists at the nearby Vipaji Gallery. In Kenya, there is Patrick Mukabi at the National Railways Museum, Shabu Mwangi’s Wajuuku studio in the Mukuru slum, and the welcoming open-door att