Rwanda goes to parliamentary polls on September 3, with the ruling Rwandan Patriotic Front expected to win the majority of seats in the chambers. The Parti Libérale (PL), the Social Democratic Party (PSD) and Partie du Progrès et la Concorde (PPC), which are fielding candidates in this election, are traditional allies of RPF. The three parties did not field candidates in the presidential election in 2017, backing President Paul Kagame. The parties also endorsed constitutional amendments that removed term limits, giving President Kagame a window to stay on until 2034. Also in the race are four independents and the de facto opposition, the Green Party of Rwanda. The Parliamentary Elections Act, which was enacted in 2013 and amended recently, requires potential candidates to obtain 600 signatures from all the 30 districts. A political organisation or individual needs at least five per cent of the votes cast to win a seat. Commentators say candidates in the forthcoming parliamentary election will face development rather than political challenges. To begin with, in June government unveiled a five-year plan running up to 2023 to boost agriculture that will cost Rwf2.7 trillion ($3.07 billion). To achieve this, the plan is premised on extension, productivity and resilience, inclusive markets, innovation, value addition and creating an enabling environment and responsive institutions. The fact that the plan runs through the term of the next House, means that MPs will need to do more to ensure it is achieved. After all, it encompasses most items on the agenda of many parties on alleviating poverty and food insecurity through the transformation of agriculture. Speaking to party officials a few days before the campaigns President Kagame told RPF parliamentary candidates that they are expected to work hard to the livelihoods of citizens. There are 7.2 million Rwandans registered to vote in this election, an increase of 30,000 people, many of whom are youth who turned 18 this year. There were 6.8 million voters on the register during the presidential elections in 2017. Officially, campaigns ends a day before the polls. The National Electoral Commission said it is ready for the elections. “All logistical and personnel are in place to ensure elections run well. The last batch of ballot papers and other materials leave our Kigali stores today,” the Commission’s executive secretary Charles Munyaneza said on Wednesday. “We have opened some 2,400 polling stations. We registered close to 800 observers and over 120 of them are foreign. All is progressing well.” The AU has sent in 40 observers.   61 per cent of the aspirants who applied to contest in September elections are women. African leaders in Beijing looking for funds for infrastructure. Most suspects have been left off the hook due to technicalities and lack of evidence.