Kenyan sculptor Robin Okeyo Mbera is showing his collection of stone carvings at the Afro-Cubism Journey #1 exhibition, on at the Nairobi Museums until September 9. Mbera takes on Pablo Picasso, founder of the cubism style of painting in the early 1900s. Picasso drew inspiration from African masks and statues from West Africa. Mbera is repatriating Cubism to Africa in a three-dimensional form. A self-taught artist, Mbera lives in western Kenya’s Tabaka region, an area known for soapstone carving. For the past five years he has sketched, designed and carved Afro-Cubist sculptures. Only his first piece, New Year’s Celebration, is made from Kisii soapstone. The rest are made from silicate, a much harder stone, using power tools. The 26 pieces are mostly monochrome, in black and dark greys, with matt or glossy finishes. Some reveal the natural patterns of serpentine lines and light spots, and others are partly dyed in ochre-red. Hard angles and straight lines are softened by smooth edges and rounded corners. The carvings speak of modern Africa, its culture, celebrations and nature through human forms and figurative elements. Some carvings are notable for their elegant simplicity, such as the trapezium-shaped Lost Songs, with its tinge of deep red in the grey stone. Several are intricate and abstract, drawing you into a multifaceted story. The conflict between lifestyle, church and music is seen in Lost Touch for Black People, a guitar-shaped carving with women, youth and a cross. Jeunes Urbanis (Urban Youth), a dense assortment of figures in dual shades, is bursting with youthful energy tempered by curvaceous shapes of women. The carvings are part of the private collection of Kenyan businessman Mutuma Marangu. Afro-Cubism is a bold endeavour and represents a refreshing change in the local art scene. Hopefully, it will inspire a more thoughtful approach to creativity in Kenya. Meantime, Mbera is working on Afro-Cubism pieces for Journey #2.   African leaders in Beijing looking for funds for infrastructure. Most suspects have been left off the hook due to technicalities and lack of evidence.