Sixteen candidates led by veteran leader Didier Ratsiraka, want the November 7 Madagascar presidential election postponed. Mr Ratsiraka, who will turn 82 on November 4, said that the election would put the entirely nation at a risk if not conducted properly. “This election will be endangering the entire nation,” he stated at a live interview aired by the Antananarivo-based private TV and radio stations on Wednesday night. “One, two, three people have secretly imported illicit weapons, according to my intelligence. I refrain from citing any names,” he claimed. International community Mr Ratsiraka also questioned the preparedness of the national institutions and the international community for the Madagascar vote. “You, the international community, are responsible of what has been going on in Madagascar since 2002,” he claimed. The former president said numerous institutional deficiencies and failures could provoke a dangerous post-electoral dispute like was witnessed in Cote d'Ivoire in 2010 -11. “We need first to fix altogether these issues before heading to elections. Our constitution itself contains many contradictions,” he stressed. Mr Ratsiraka ruled Madagascar from 1975 to 1993 and again from 1997 to 2002. The government He was banned from participating in the 2013 presidential poll meant to end the long-running crisis in the country. He, on August 21, submitted his bid for the Malagasy presidency, becoming the 36th aspirant to do so. “Being a candidate gives one the right and more chance to be heard,” Mr Ratsiraka asserted. However, the government and the national poll agency and partners continue to deploy efforts for the November 7 vote. Incumbent President Hery Rajaonarimampianina is expected to resign, latest Friday, having announced his re-election bid in Antananarivo on August 17.   Andry Rajoelina likely to face ex-president Ravalomanana and incumbent Rajaonarimampianina. Qatar brokered a peace deal in 2010 but relations have remained strained. Kwita Izina among Rwanda's leading tourism attraction.