My one-day trip to the Mara to catch the wildebeest migration started on an early Tuesday morning. I was elated, anticipating the spectacular view of the animals crossing the Mara River. By 9am I was at the waiting lounge of Nairobi’s Wilson Airport, as the flight was scheduled to leave at 11.30am. Several airlines in the region like Jetways bank on the wildebeest migration to make a profit. A trip to the Mara costs around $300 to $400 return for locals, exclusive of lunch and park fees. We arrived at the Keekorok Airstrip at the Mara 30 minutes later. The weather was sunny, and a group of Masai dancers welcomed us as we disembarked. We were a group of journalists and missionaries from the US who were wrapping up their work at Mt Elgon with a trip to the Mara. We drove to the Keekorok Lodge. It is the oldest hotel in the Masai Mara. After lunch, we drove towards the Mara River. The wildebeest migration from the Serengeti in Tanzania to the Masai Mara in Kenya is the eighth wonder of the world. It usually starts in July and ends in October. There had been delays for over two weeks this year due to wildfires in the Northern Serengeti plains in Tanzania. As we were driving towards the Mara River, the tour guides asked their colleagues who were returning if they had seen wildebeest crossing the river. They hadn’t. Some tourists had left without seeing the animals cross. We drove for an hour towards the Sand River Gate, close to one of the spots where the animals cross. On our way, we saw hundreds of wildebeest that had arrived days before, grazing alongside zebras and antelopes. The tour guide informed us that the wildebeest from Tanzania have slightly lighter coats than the Kenyan ones. We came upon tour vans parked near an acacia tree. They were looking at the top where an antelope carcass lay. We also came across a lioness taking a nap. At the Sand River Gate we saw the beaten down paths on the banks where the animals pass. The water was still, save for hippos and crocodiles that were strategically positioned on the path the wildebeest took to the crossing. We did not witness the wildebeest crossing, but the trip was not in vain. The wild animals and the view of the expansive grasslands was worth the trip. If you miss the spectacle, it gives you a reason to visit again.   Art in Africa is not confined to artefacts and images to be hung on the wall. President Kenyatta failed to assent the amended Finance Bill to spare taxpayers more levies.