Cameroonian authorities have launched a hunt for inmates who escaped from the Wum prison when armed separatists attacked their detention facility in the Northwest amidst an escalation of a two-year long crisis. Local media reported that gunmen stormed the prison Tuesday night, opened fire and smashed the main door, facilitating the exit of some 117 inmates, but 30 of them returned on Wednesday. The Tuesday prison break was the third in the last three months, after those of Bali and Ndop, still in the strife-hit region. Over 160 prisoners fled when a similar incident happened in Ndop in July. Various crimes The gunmen attacking the prisons were believed to be militants of a separatist group that has been fighting for secession of English speakers from the predominantly French-speaking Cameroon. The separatists want the creation of a new state called Ambazonia. There were fears the runaway inmates, sentenced for various crimes and some still awaiting trial, may swell the ranks of the separatist movement in an “escalation of horrific violence” in the former Southern Cameroon. Amnesty International estimates that up to 400 civilians have been killed by both the security forces and the armed separatists as a result of the violence in the two English speaking regions, and there were fears of an upsurge of violence with the upcoming presidential election. Potential voters “With the upcoming elections in Cameroon, we have reason to fear a further upsurge in violence. We may well see an escalation in the number of security incidents and increased activity by armed separatists threatening to disrupt the electoral process at all costs in the Anglophone regions,” said Ms Samira Daoud, Amnesty’s Deputy Regional Director for West and Central Africa. Cameroon will hold a presidential election on October 7, with eight opposition candidates in the race to unseat incumbent President Paul Biya. The nine candidates and their supporters have been crisscrossing the country since the official launch of campaigns last Saturday to woo potential voters. Separatists have threatened to impose a ‘state of emergency’ on the troubled English-speaking Northwest and Southwest regions ahead the vote.   Ruling party and opposition defy warnings to hold rallies The next three decades need third wave of poverty reduction in Africa. CBK ready to crack the whip again on any rogue bank, CBK governor warns.