As the Country and Western singer Hank Williams put it, “I’ll never get out of this world alive.” Intimations of mortality… an old theme and a rich seam mined by artists to this day. Their preoccupation with death comes in many forms, one of the most popular being works that contained memento mori, literally, “remember that you must die.” Skulls were a popular prop in portraits, as were hourglasses and burning candles that showed the passage of time, while dead birds and animals invited us to contemplate the ephemeral nature of our own lives too. Clocks were decorated with skeletons to remind us that each passing second tick-tocked us closer to death, while prayer beads, chapels decorated with human bones and pictures of the Grim Reaper all warned of our inevitable fate. And the idea of reminding us of the fragility of our brief existence is, er, still alive and well. Proving the point is Moira Bushkimani, aged just 27 and in excellent health but determined to show us that nothing lasts forever. Her construction A Dog’s Death cleverly rearranges a dog’s jawbone and skull and surmounts them with a human head and torso fashioned from a mesh of wires to present an emblem of society in its final throes. For although we strive to own as much as possible, the artist explained, we all die like dogs — alone and with nothing. Exemplifying the Dadaist principle of adapting found objects, it is a well-considered piece with a timeless message. At only 26cm high, its simplicity and power make it the finest thing in a current three-handed exhibition called Void, curated by Willem Kevenaar at his Attic Art Space in Nairobi. Balancing this is her similar sized construction 21st Man, a seated figure made of bent wire, silver foil and blue and red cords for veins and arteries, that is driving headlong towards the abyss. So go we all. Greeting us at the ground floor entrance is The Perch, another construction by Bushkimani that shows a twisted wire figure seated on a swing, made from an old coat hanger, suspended within a simple black wooden frame dangling from the ceiling. Its energy is enhanced by a spotlight that creates a rhythm between it, the figure and its moving shadow. Bushkimani’s contribution to the exhibition continues on the way up to the first floor gallery, where seven rectangular picture stretchers cascade above the stairwell, hung on almost invisible fishing line. This is reminiscent of David Thuku’s installation of painted picture frames at the Villa Rosa in Nairobi but on a smaller scale, and in this domestic setting rather more intimate and accessible. Bushkimani has been a full-time artist for some five years. Based at the Brush Tu collective in Buruburu, she is an exciting find and must surely be ready for a first solo show anytime soon. Exhibiting with her in Void are Janice Iche and Peteros Ndunde, both of whom were shown recently in Thom Ogonga’s visual essay Line, at the One-Off Gallery in Rosslyn. Iche is an interesting young performance and visual artist committed to protesting at the objectification of women and their supposed role in society. Her ideas for paintings seem to come so quickly that she barely has time to finesse her canvases. In several of her acrylics, her line tends to be ragged and the paint rather roughly applied. One untitled painting that shows a woman kneeling with four disembodied bright red hands reaching for her crotch, painted gold, is as gaudy as a pizza, somewhat obvious and rather crudely worked, although it certainly commands attention. A group of three of her paintings hung downstairs together called Always Flailing, You Know, You Know were more carefully made, and although each was only 40cm by 40cm they had an impact equal to that of the larger works upstairs. Ndunde makes intricate drawings of faces and figures in ballpoint, that he says focus on the impact of the internal and external forces on people. His stylised figures hint at an interest in Cubism but I was unable to see how they substantiated his thesis, although I imagine the obvious effort that went into their creation could appeal.   They would have worked better as etchings where their density of line and the bite of the plate would have given them greater depth. The Attic Art Space specialises in emerging artists; a courageous idea worthy of support. The gallery is in the grounds of a private house on Ibis Crescent in Nyari Estate to the west of Nairobi — so go there and see this show before you die. As die we surely shall.   He was a high-flying, well-connected personality, until his arrest in April 2014. Some 540 people badly injured.