Kenya will be the setting for one of the final episodes in the CNN series Parts Unknown in which US celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain travels the world sampling cuisines and cultures. Mr Bourdain committed suicide in June at the age of 61. Parts Unknown won six Emmy awards during its five-year run. Mr Bourdain, its host, attracted a global audience for his freewheeling but respectful journeys to countries that most Americans will never visit. The Kenya episode is set to air on CNN on September 23 (this Sunday) as the first of the last seven instalments of Parts Unknown. It is co-narrated by W, Kamau Bell, an African-American comedian and social commentator. A one-minute, 48-second preview of the show has been posted online. "Nairobi is super, like, technicolour," Mr Bell says in a commentary accompanying the preview. "It's a lot to take in. "Tony has made some of the best television in the history of television," Mr Bell adds. In the 75-minute long Kenya segment, Mr Bourdain and Mr Bell take a matatu "party bus" ride, share a meal of goat's head soup and visit a boxing academy that promotes female empowerment. The pair also travel to the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy in northern Kenya. Former US president Barack Obama, who appeared on Parts Unknown in a segment last year shot in Vietnam, mourned Mr Bourdain's death in a tweet following the chef's death. "He taught us about food — but more importantly, about its ability to bring us together,” Mr Obama wrote. “To make us a little less afraid of the unknown. We’ll miss him.” Mr Bourdain rose to fame on the basis of his book, Kitchen Confidential, published in 2000. In it, he lays bare what happens behind the scenes of posh restaurants in New York and other US cities. Mr Bourdain visited Kenya in March with his filming crew and visited several Kenyan restaurants including the RoadHouse Grill in Nairobi where they sampled nyama choma, ugali and local beer, Tusker and Nyama Mama, the high-end restaurant that serves local Kenyan dishes with an international twist.   With the Delamere family, more like a dynasty, the story never ends. At least 131 bodies recovered as many people still missing in ferry disaster.