Ronald Sebuhinja K is a Ugandan tweep with a penchant for the pithy tweet. On August 28, he posted; “Yesterday, I came across a 7km long traffic jam. Yes - seven kilometres. This was at Malaba on the Kenyan side. Seven kilometres of trucks awaiting Customs clearance. Fortunately, we were able to sweep past them in our passenger vehicle. One of us counted 170 trucks before giving up.” Other tweeps jumped in, with one saying that at the same border his children had once counted 350 trucks lined up on the Kenyan side, waiting to enter Uganda. There were things said about the shameful state of the road connecting the two countries. To be fair, the Busia border, though busier, is better served – although the trucks also line up there, though not for seven kilometres. The primary reason is the One Stop Border Post, which has dramatically speeded up border clearance and immigration. But Sebuhinja’s point still holds. That those long truck lines at Malaba are a symptom of a deeper malaise. African governments, like others in the developing world, are really bad at providing three public goods: Efficiency, competence, and convenience. When truck drivers wait for a day or more to cross a border, it is a denial of those three goods in the extreme. But the queue is not innocent. Queues are one of the many ways government bureaucrats and petty officials in the private sector exercise power. In some places, there is money in it; if you are impatient or desperate, you bribe the guard to let you get ahead. Or you stuff a small brown envelope in the palm of a Customs official to clear your truck faster. It is also political, especially when it comes to providing convenience. For example, in all the East African countries you cannot now, as of old, be dropped off near the entrance to their international airports. You are dropped some 50 to 100 metres away. If it is raining, there is no East African airport where if you aren’t a VIP you won’t be soaked on arrival or departure. In Uganda, you have two options. You can push your trolley up a small hill to the terminal building, or you can take a shorter route and then carry your bags up two flights of stairs! The airport employs some porters to help, but often too many people arrive at the same time, then you’re on your own. Unless a country is poor, you will notice that in democracies where they are sensitive to the feeling of voters, especially the ones that fly, you will arrive at an airport under a canopy, very close to the entrance, or have the option to park underground. If you get beaten by rain when you are leaving or arriving, you can basically write the first chapter of your book about the country’s politics. Terrorism is the excuse for this shabby treatment at our airports. But, first, many countries that face terrorist threats don’t do it – there are smarter ways (like reinforced airport entrances and bulletproof glass). Second, there’s an easy solution. If you force passengers to disembark 100 metres away, please build a canopy. And add two desks and officers to shorten the Malaba truck queue. Charles Onyango-Obbo is publisher of data visualiser Africapaedia and Rogue Chiefs. Twitter@cobbo3   “This is close to devil worshipping and not acceptable." Faction leader said to be mobilising the diaspora against Juba