The Uganda Film Festival (UFF) is calling for entries for the 2018 edition. According to the organisers, the Uganda Communications Commission (UCC), films should be submissions are going on at its headquarters in Bugolobi, Kampala, until September 30. ADVERTISEMENT Films can also be submitted at the UCC regional offices in Mbale, Mbarara, Gulu and Masindi districts. The 6th edition to be be held from November 26-30, in Kampala will feature film screenings, a film exhibition market, workshops and forums, organised around the week of the festival. There are 22 awards to be competed for this year: Best Cinematography, Best Costumes (Production design), Best Sound, Best Screenplay (Script), Best Student Film, Best Animation, Best Short Film, Best Feature Film, People’s Choice Award, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Documentary, Best East African Film, Best Post-production/Editing, Best TV Drama/Series, Best Actor in a TV Drama, Best Actress in a TV Drama, Special Award/Life Achievement Award, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress, Best Supporting Actor, and Best African Film Award. According to UCC, all films submitted to UFF 2018 must have undergone classification and ratings as required by Ugandan law. The opening ceremony/nominee night is set for November 26. The training workshops, film exhibition market, screenings will run from November 27-29. The Awards Gala Night (closing ceremony) will be held on November 30. According to UCC, “The UFF initiative was established in 2013 to promote the local film industry both locally and internationally, and to bring all the industry stakeholders together in a more focused and structured environment. “This is aims at creating a lucrative industry economically and socially to preserve our national values through film.” UCC says that its objective is to stimulate the film industry so as to enable it achieve its full potential as a source of employment, revenue creation, and preserve culture through local content. The festival showcases local content in the film industry but also focuses on other facets of promoting the industry, for example, trainings.   Hundreds of artefacts dating back millions of years have been unearthed in the semi-arid basin. A Kampala businesswoman berates government officials over leadership.