The Alfa Romeo Owners Club has received several car and motorcycle entries from Uganda in recent days for the CBA Africa Concours d’Elegance scheduled for September 30 at the Nairobi Racecourse. Nine cars and 19 motorcycles will be brought from Kampala to Nairobi to contest the classiest event on the Kenyan motor sport calendar. The annual Concours gives the owners of well-kept cars and motorcycles the opportunity to have them assessed by highly experienced judges while showcasing them to motor enthusiasts who flock to the event. Competitors also have the chance to win prizes in the 12 classes for cars and eight for motorcycles, and there are awards for the best costumes and teams. “There is every indication that we will have a full field of 70 cars and a strong motorcycle entry before the final deadline in mid-September. “In addition there is growing interest in Auto Expo, the Motor Trade section, and the Classic Sale which is open to cars and bikes made 25 years ago, or earlier regardless of their condition,” Concours secretary Lucy Mungai said. The Uganda entries include a 1987 Panther Kallista, which is a two seater open sports car made in Britain using Ford engines. Kakooza Wazzir will drive this sports car on the Total Excellium inspection ramp and along the judging line in front of the main grandstands at the racecourse. Kakooza has also entered a 1980 Toyota Mark II Corona and a 1986 Peugeot 504. The Toyota Corona was second last year in the up to 1600 cc touring car class, followed by the Volkswagen Beetle of Jinja-based Leslie Carvell, who will be making her fifth appearance at the event. In 2017 Ronald Walusimbi was the most successful participant from Uganda in the Concours. He won the up to 2500cc touring car class with his highly prepared 1974 Mercedes Benz saloon. This year, he has also entered a 1967 Toyota Corona. Edgar Katamujuna is another regular competitor from Uganda, with his Volkswagen Beetle was made in 1967. Some 19 members of the Ugandan Bikers Association (UBA) will ride from Kampala to Nairobi for the Concours. Four UBA members, who will be participating in a fundraising event from Kampala to Cape Town, will arrive in Nairobi in time to join the other team members for the Concours. The Uganda contingent has a strong reputation for winning the Trail and Enduro classes at previous events. In 2017, Gianfranco Masetto, the vice chairman of the UBA, and Antonino D’Agostino won in these classes.   Art in Africa is not confined to artefacts and images to be hung on the wall. President Kenyatta failed to assent the amended Finance Bill to spare taxpayers more levies.