The East African Court of Justice and the African Court of Human and Peoples’ Rights recently signed an MoU that will commit the two international legal institutions to collaborate and co-operate. The regional court has agreed to compare notes with the continental judiciary in a bid to prevent different interpretations of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. It is the first time the two Arusha-based courts have converged on a bilateral basis since the continental court became operational in 2010, about a year before the EACJ was inaugurated. The African Court president Justice Sylvain Oré, from Côte d’Ivoire, penned the agreement on behalf of the continental court and his EACJ counterpart Emmanuel Ugireshabuja, from Rwanda, signed it on behalf of the regional court. Co-existence between courts of regional economic communities (RECs) such as the EACJ and the African Court is defined by their jurisdiction on human-rights protection. Case reference No 1 of 2007 filed by James Katabazi and 21 others against the East African Community Secretary-General and the Attorney-General of Uganda confirmed the working relation between the two courts. Dr Ugireshabuja said the case against Katabazi and 21 others was instrumental in cementing ties between the two international courts. He said the cursory review of the EACJ jurisprudence in the case showed that a number of cases it received had human-rights aspects. Many argued that the EACJ did not have jurisdiction on human rights, but the regional court ruled in the Katabazi case that a breach of human rights was also a violation of the EAC Treaty. “Article 6(d) and 7(2) was premised on the Katabazi case,” Dr Ugireshabuja said. The articles require partner states to adhere to fundamental principles of good governance. Katabazi and 21 others were charged with treason and misprision of treason in Uganda before they were remanded in custody in 2004. However, the Uganda High Court granted 14 of them bail in November 2006, but security personnel surrounded the court and interfered with bail documents. The accused were all arraigned before a military General Court Martial and accused of unlawful possession of firearms and terrorism. The Uganda Law Society went to the Constitutional Court to challenge the interference in the court process by security personnel and the practice of conducting prosecutions in both civilian and military courts. The Constitutional Court ruled that the interference was unconstitutional, yet the complainants were not released, prompting them to head to the regional court. The courts will now collaborate in a systematic exchange of information, creation of a joint online training platform and in the establishment of a staff peer-exchange programme. “The role of regional and continental courts is to create a peaceful world, and uphold human dignity,” Judge Stella Anukam said shortly before the agreement was signed.   Standoff over profit-sharing will affect the proposed $30 billion natural gas project. Move has been informed by concerns over the region’s rising public debt