Millions of public and private sector workers on Thursday commenced a 14-day strike to force the Nigerian government to increase the current minimum wage of $38. The strike in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), was call by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and United Labour Congress (ULC). The organised labour had also on September 12 issued the Federal Government a 14-day ultimatum, insisting that the Tripartite Committee on the new National Minimum Wage should conclude its work within the stipulated time. The negotiation for a new minimum wage had been on for about a year, with the government team being blamed for delaying the process. The state governments have not been forthcoming with any figure to counter the $200 proposal of the unions. A deadlock A Tripartite Committee meeting called to avert the strike ended in a deadlock on Wednesday, but Labour minister Chris Ngige said the meeting was shifted to October 4. The President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Mr Ayuba Wabba, accused the Federal Government of stalling the negotiation by failing to propose a new minimum wage. Mr Wabba said the industrial action was in compliance with the decision of the organised labour, which endorsed the 14-day ultimatum served on the Federal Government. He also said that public and private institutions, including filling stations, would remain shut till further notice. The NLC president noted that the justification for the new national minimum wage could be over argued. The assignment “We do believe that the reasons governors find it difficult to pay the national minimum wage are lack of political will, high level of corruption, excessive cost of governance and white elephants projects, among others," he said. But Mr Ngige insisted that the government would be meeting with the organised labour and the National Minimum Wage Committee, which was inaugurated in November 2017. The committee started sitting in March 2018 with a view to delivering on its mandate on August/ September 2018. The minister reported that the meeting on Wednesday was in fact successful as both the Federal Government and the leadership of the organised labour agreed to reconvene the National Minimum Wage Committee on October 4, 2018. ”This is to give enough time for the Income Salaries and Wages Commission to round off the assignment given to it, ”he said.   It is cheaper to prevent conflicts than deal with the high costs of a post-conflict scenario. US president says Kim Jong Un wants peace and prosperity