Hollywood actress Ashley Judd, 50, was in Kenya for the last week of August visiting programmes of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the agency for sexual and reproductive health. She addressed a group of professional women in Nairobi about her humanitarian and social justice work at an exclusive event sponsored by telecom giant Safaricom, but it was her comments on workplace sexual abuse, the rights of abused and underprivileged women and young people that had everyone listening. While her role as a Goodwill Ambassador for UNFPA since 2016 is important, she was thrown into the limelight when she became involved in the now famous #MeToo movement after publicly accusing famous Hollywood film producer Harvey Weinstein, of sexually assaulting her in a hotel room more than 20 years ago. The assault, she said, happened during the filming of the movie Kiss the Girls, and that her rebuttal of Weinstein’s repeated advances led to loss of career and financial opportunities. In her talk in Nairobi, Judd said that while sexual misconduct against women had long been a covert problem in Hollywood and other industries ,it remained unaddressed. She said that she came forward following the expose written by Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey, and published in the The New York Times in October 2017. “The quality of their investigative journalism was so incontrovertible that it helped create the watershed moment,” said Judd. She said that agreeing to be a named source in articles by journalist Ronan Farrow also helped to uncover Weinstein offences, and finally bring him to justice. The resulting #MeToo campaign, a phrase coined by African American activist Tarana Burke in 2006, exploded into a global crusade against sexual persecution. Kantor, Twohey and Farrow won the 2018, Pulitzer Prize for Public Service. In April 2018 Judd filed a lawsuit against Weinstein for defamation and sexual harassment. Judd said that the election of Donald Trump as president of the US was a catalyst, especially in light of the sexist statements he has made over the years about women, and the denigration of Hillary Clinton during the election campaign by both men and women. “I define the problem as over-identification with the patriarchy; women still get their sense of protection and themselves by identifying with the patriarchy,” she said. “Trauma can be transformed and our mess becomes our message,” she added. In her view, family planning is an essential component of sustainable development and poverty alleviation. “It frees up so much physical, emotional and financial capital for women. They have greater negotiating power and greater leverage.” At the core of Judd’s engagement with these issues is her childhood in an unstable family environment. “There was a lot of love [but] there was alcohol and drug dependency,” she said. She was sexually abused as a child, twice lived on her own and attended 13 different schools in 12 years. Grandparents and godparents were a stabilising factor in her erratic life. She emphasised the importance of mentoring of youth because, “We can never predict the ways in which we can impact life, even if our interactions with someone are limited.” Judd is also passionate about economic empowerment of unemployed youth, mother and child healthcare, HIV/Aids and improving digital communication by expanding opportunities for safe, abuse-free online expression. Career As a Hollywood veteran, Judd has starred in dozens of movies and TV shows since the 1990s. Her mother, Naomi Judd, and sister Wynonna Judd are popular Country and Western musicians. Currently, she is starring in the television drama series Berlin Station, about international espionage. She studied French, theatre and art history at the University of Kentucky and has a Master’s in Public Administration from Harvard University. “What really took me to the next level and helped transform the pain and the loneliness of that childhood was my education,” said Judd. To keep fit and energised, she follows a strict exercise regime, meditates and sleeps for 10 hours every day and spends “plenty of time with my sweetheart.” Judd says her idea of feminism is about equality between men and women, “the economic, social, political and sexual.” She is currently writing a book in which she speaks of the breakdown of her marriage, forming strong bonds with her ex-husband and his new wife, healing relationships with family members and how she chose to become a named source in the Harvey Weinstein expose.   Art in Africa is not confined to artefacts and images to be hung on the wall. President Kenyatta failed to assent the amended Finance Bill to spare taxpayers more levies.