Sing, Unburied, Sing is a work of fiction by award winning author Jesmyn Ward. The book is about life and death, family, race and relationships, packed into a high tempo story that makes your soul ache and forces you to take sides. There are no in-between emotions. It is painful and real, it pulls you right into the heart of the matter — family. Set in the post-Civil Rights era in the poverty stricken Deep South of the US, the racial overtones still resonate with today’s happenings in the country. The actions and reactions of the characters are an epitome of what America was, is and has always been. A society still coming to grips with its horrible past. The story reminds us that nothing much has changed in American society. It is a story about a black family, written from a black person’s perspective in a highly personalised way that could almost be based on a true story. The author uses 12 closely linked characters to weave a journey of anguish and deep emotions, leaving the reader wishing they could change what is clearly a story trajectory that is headed for heartbreak and disaster. Ward’s storytelling style is reminiscent of Richard Wright’s Native Son or Toni Morrison’s Beloved. All it takes is one wrong decision, and a series of events follow that make up every shade of sanity. You almost want to scream at the characters. Sing, Unburied Sing is that American novel presenting the life of black families in black and white. It does not shy away from their flaws and is not ashamed to point at the injustices of society towards black people. It deals with how black people have been conditioned to deal with the issue of race. Patriach Red River, called Pop, has to deal with his dying wife, Mam, confined to bed by cancer. His daughter Leonie, who should be helping out, is held captive by what Mam calls a sick relationship with a white boy, Michael, the father of her two children Jojo and Kayla. Leonie and Michael’s relationship is not perfect but permanently smudged by the murder of Given, Leonie’s brother, by Michael’s racist cousin, but which was covered up as a hunting accident. There is no love lost between the two families, with racial overtones barely below the surface. But the couple persists, making many people unhappy. As if the story were not complicated enough, the author uses flashbacks to develop Pop’s character by introducing a ghost, Richie, who haunts the family. Richie wants Mam’s spirit to help him cross over. This is Pop’s struggle in life. He had a hand in Richie’s death. And Ward throws in Given’s ghost too, as the good one in the fight for Mam’s soul as she lies dying. The author uses the two ghosts to bring out the spiritualism of the Deep South and how black communities chose to live on their own terms, in their own ways, keeping to their own mores and culture. Dying Mam’s story is one of passing on generational knowledge, a family facing the death of a loved one, the struggles to accept what is coming and how every family member deals with grief. It is also a story of accepting death as an eventual inevitability by the dying. The raw emotions of the novel tug at the heart, and for anyone who has had to deal with a sick parent or child, it is a tearjerker. But above all, it is a story about love. How much is too much to the point of being called unhealthy? Would you love your lover more than your children, parents, siblings? Is it possible to hate your parents? Do you really have to make a choice when it comes to love? This is Leonie’s story. The writer puts all these questions to the reader as the family pulls in every direction for love and acceptance. The ghosts too are seeking love from the living. The author is a remarkable storyteller and packs all this into only 289 pages. This is Ward’s third book after Where the Line Bleeds and Salvage the Bones. She is the first female US author to win two National Book Award for Fiction awards for Sing (2017) and Salvage (2011). Sing has been shortlisted for the Women’s Prize for Fiction 2018. Ward is currently an associate professor of creative writing at Tulane University, and lives in Mississippi.   Art in Africa is not confined to artefacts and images to be hung on the wall. President Kenyatta failed to assent the amended Finance Bill to spare taxpayers more levies.