A small, tightly curated exhibition of say six to 10 paintings would do the Kenyan First Generation artist Tabitha wa Thuku a huge favour. It would show her still stoically working on, long after the passing of her introduction to the landmark Gallery Watatu, and it would focus on her undoubted strengths — bold and instinctive paintings featuring a widely varied palette and a willingness to throw convention aside in favour of a personal and unique statement. At the Watatu, Eunice Wadu, Lucy Njeri, Annabelle Wanjiku and Rosemary Karuga were the blue chip artists who helped to put women at the forefront of the explosion of interest in Kenyan painting in the late 80s and early 90s. Wa Thuku followed in their footsteps to become a name to reckon with, and she enjoyed a measure of international success. So, if only she had presented a small, tightly curated exhibition of say six to 10 paintings… If only. Instead she is offering some 31 mixed media paintings on canvas in a current show at the Banana Hill Art Gallery on the outskirts of Nairobi and, sad to say, they leave her rather exposed. When Wa Thuku gets it right the results are powerful, startling and memorable. But when she misses the mark, visiting her exhibitions is like turning up at a train wreck… colour everywhere — alas, often sludgy; indeterminate, vague shapes; bits of bodies in unexpected places; general chaos; enough swirling imagery to make you giddy; paint laid on like grease on an axle; and in a different age, the steady hiss of escaping steam. For of the 31 paintings at Banana Hill, (until May 2) I thought around 25 of them were duds. They were, frankly, a mess of colour (many overall struck me as muddy, dark and dull) with disorganised brushwork and lacking form, structure and depth. Faces beamed inanely out of odd corners of the canvas, poses were clichéd, and the whole slew of them seemed to me to be incoherent and without any binding tension. One of two large portraits of Prof Wangari Maathai (around 200cm by 150cm), mysteriously called Laureate Wardrobe, showed the lady’s face grinning fixedly and emerging from a tree trunk. It reminded me of one of those children’s fairy tales in which trees deep in the forest come alive and threaten you; not, I guess, the effect intended. In Dancing City an apparently disembodied head lurks in the top right hand corner of the canvas, separate in composition, thought and feeling from the rest of the painting. I could not tell what it has to do either with dancing or with a city, even allowing for the licence traditionally given to titles of artwork. And so it continues throughout much of this exhibition. But, apart from that, did you enjoy the play, Mrs Lincoln? Well, actually yes. Some of the paintings are strong, almost surgically precise, spare in colour and entirely harmonious. For examples, see Family Frame, from 2004, with its caramel, white, rose pink and lemon palette defining stylised figures, and the similarly clean, intricate design of My Garden. For those who prefer a lusher palette, waiting to delight are the autobiographical A Birthday Gift from 1999, with its central figures of mother, child and cuddly toy forming a powerful triangular motif against a plain green background, The Toto in which the focus is on the baby cradled in its mother’s arms, and The Voices/Winds of Kinangop, a complex aerial landscape, adroitly handled, in reds and greens offset by accents of whitened trees. Also very well done is Slim Roots in the Forest, a spiralling composition that draws you deep into the woods as the leafy boughs arch above. These paintings show clearly how this artist deserved her reputation and status — and more importantly, what she still can do when she puts her mind to it. What Wa Thuku needs right now, even more than her easel, is literally to go back to the drawing board to hone her skills, coupled with a long hard think about what it is she wants to tell us and what she wishes to celebrate. Then she should have the courage to put on a small, carefully selected show of say six to 10 well-considered paintings. And without doubt, it would be a winner.   When Tabitha wa Thuku gets it right the results are spectacular, but... Magufuli ordered military to build Great Mirerani Wall to control illegal mining. Ugandan market traders had abandoned their craft for charcoal business.