Former South African president Jacob Zuma appeared in court on Friday to face corruption charges relating to a $2.5 billion arms deal, later telling a crowd he would be proven innocent in the long running case that resurfaced after his fall from power. Zuma’s transition from “Mr President” to “Accused Number One” in less than two months is a significant setback for the 75-year-old, whose nine years in office were marked by economic stagnation and credit downgrades. He faces 16 charges, including fraud, racketeering and money laundering. In a procedural appearance that lasted less than 15 minutes, state prosecutors and Zuma’s lawyers asked the Durban High Court to adjourn the case until June 8 so both sides could prepare submissions. Judge Themba Sishi approved the request. A potential trial would take several more months to prepare. Zuma later told thousands of supporters outside court in Durban that his opponents were telling lies and the judiciary and politicians believed that he did not have rights. “The truth will come out. What have I done?” Zuma told the cheering crowd, speaking in Zulu in his home Kwa-Zulu Natal Province. “I am innocent until proven guilty.” Mr Zuma denies any wrongdoing and is challenging the decision to prosecute the case, a dramatic development on a continent where political leaders are rarely held to account for their actions before the law. The speed with which prosecutors have booked his day in court is a sign of the loss of control the former president has suffered since his successor, Cyril Ramaphosa, became head of the ruling African National Congress (ANC) in December. 'Politically motivated witchhunt' Mr Zuma, who has never lost the ability to rouse a crowd with traditional song and dance, still retains some popular support, especially in his Zulu heartland. Heavily armed police in riot gear lined the square outside the court, as thousands of Zuma supporters gathered to express solidarity with a leader they say is the victim of a politically motivated witchhunt. Marchers, many clad in the distinctive yellow, green and black of the ANC, carried placards reading “Hands off Zuma” and performed the high-stepping toyi-toyi protest dance made popular in South Africa’s decades-long struggle against apartheid. Mr Zuma, forced to resign by the ANC last month, was at the centre of a 1990s deal to buy billions of dollars of European military hardware to upgrade South Africa’s post-apartheid armed forces. But the deal was mired in scandal and controversy from the start, with many inside and outside the ANC questioning the spending given the massive social problems, from health to education, Nelson Mandela’s party had to address after coming to power in 1994. The affair has cast a shadow over South African politics ever since. Mr Zuma was deputy president at the time. Schabir Shaikh, his former financial adviser, was found guilty and jailed in 2005 for trying to solicit bribes for Mr Zuma from a subsidiary of French arms company Thales. The company is facing charges in the same case. Charges against Mr Zuma were filed but then set aside by the National Prosecuting Authority shortly before he successfully ran for president in 2009. The charges were re-instated in 2016. Since his election nine years ago, his opponents have fought a lengthy legal battle to have the charges reinstated. Zuma countered with his own legal challenges. The arms deal Newly democratic South Africa decided its military needed to be overhauled — and five years after coming into power following the end of white minority rule, the ANC government signed contracts totalling 30 billion rand ($5 billion in 1999). The deal involved companies from Germany, Italy, Sweden, Britain, France and South Africa. Why was it controversial? Even before the allegations of corruption were made, the spending of billions of dollars on new fighter jets, helicopters, submarines and warships was contentious in a country where millions lived in poverty. Others also pointed out that there was no credible threat to South Africa’s sovereignty to justify the spending. Questions emerged about the deal within months, leading to official investigations into allegations of conflict of interest, bribery and process violations in the purchasing of equipment. There have only been two convictions: The ANC chief parliamentary whip at the time, Tony Yengeni, was found guilty of fraud after it emerged he had received a large discount on the purchase of a luxury car from one of the firms bidding for a contract. He also lied to parliament about the benefit. After various appeals he was jailed in 2006, although he only served five months of his four-year sentence. Financial adviser and businessman Schabir Shaik was jailed for 15 years in 2005 for soliciting a bribe on behalf of Mr Zuma from Thint, the local subsidiary of Thales. He was released on medical parole in 2009. The allegations also formed part of US and British inquiries into BAE Systems and in 2010 the UK military contractor pleaded guilty to charges of false accounting and making misleading statements and paid more than $400 million in penalties to end the investigations into questionable payments made to win contracts. The following year, Swedish firm Saab admitted that 24 million rand was paid to secure a contract for fighter jets, but said the payments had been made through BAE Systems. A new commission of inquiry into the deal formed in 2011 concluded in 2016 that no new charges should be brought. But a week later the High Court ruled, in a case brought by the opposition, that Mr Zuma should face charges over the deal. They had been dropped weeks before he became president in 2009. He is alleged to have received bribes from a French arms firm via his financial adviser in order to protect Thales from scrutiny. He was first charged in 2005, but a trial has never come to fruition — thanks to many challenges, other technicalities and backing from a strong faction within the ANC. But the arms deal, among other scandals, dogged his presidency. Last year, the Supreme Court backed the decision that charges be reinstated and he now faces 16 counts of corruption, racketeering, fraud and money laundering. In total, he is accused of accepting 783 illegal payments. Zuma — survivor whose nine lives ran out A High Court judge said the decision by the National Prosecutor Authority (NPA) to drop the charges in 2009 was “irrational”. The NPA had done so after receiving phone-tap evidence from Mr Zuma’s lawyers, which suggested there had been political interference in the investigation. But the opposition Democratic Alliance pursued the case after Mr Zuma became president, winning a court battle to make the sealed recordings public and then arguing there was no evidence to warrant the charges being dropped.   A timeline of major events in the corruption charges against South African former President. Tel Aviv court is told of a secret deal with a second ‘third country’ willing to accommodate Only 25 out of 1,700 tanzanite mining firms are tax compliant.