Airport hotels have long been places with limited facilities, but as the aviation industry grew by leaps and bounds, hotels styled up to cash in on the discerning business travellers by offering the full hotel treatment close to or inside airports. I decided to check out the recently opened Four Points Nairobi Airport at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and found out it offers just that; proximity and comfort. The check-in process was hassle-free. My room was comfortable with large windows that let in a lot of natural light but also had sheer drapes that gave a sense of privacy too since it faced the back of the hotel where other businesses are located. Rooms across the corridor face the open plains and guests can see giraffes and zebras grazing from the comfort of their rooms. The rooms have work desks for the busy executive, free Wi-Fi, are noise-proof and have 24-hour room service. It is convenient for the business traveller and holiday travellers with young children and time to spare. The Lobby Bar features a secluded quiet workspace where guests can plug in and work on their their laptops. The bar is family-friendly and serves alcohol from 4pm. The aptly named Marketplace Restaurant opens into an open garden with patio seating. A business lounge comes with a private meeting room and conference rooms for larger groups. During my stay, there were meetings and events going on. The atrium ceiling gives a sense of endless space. For those who are keen on keeping fit even while travelling, there is a gym on the fifth floor facing the open savannah grassland with an outdoor swimming pool and spa. Dinner is served at the rooftop Tazama Restaurant, which is partially covered I suppose for cold Nairobi nights, although I noticed gas heaters on standby. Music from a DJ creates a vibrant atmosphere for either quick drinks or a long evening. The restaurant menu is a selection of grilled meats, wrap sandwiches and Kenyan dishes and the service is quick. The beverage list has famous Kenyan cocktails like a Hot Toddy of cognac, lemon, honey and cinnamon, and a Jetlag Dawa with vodka, lemon and lime sweetened with honey; and for beer lovers, Aero Pils, a 100 per cent malt pilsner crafted by the Nairobi-based Big Five Breweries in the hotel’s signature beer. According to the Vivek Mathur, the general manager, most guests stay for less than two days as they are either in transit or layover. A complimentary shuttle service to and from the airport and excursions to the nearby Nairobi National Park on request are some of the hotel’s extras. My stay felt more like a destination than a pit stop.   Magufuli ordered military to build Great Mirerani Wall to control illegal mining. Ugandan market traders had abandoned their craft for charcoal business.