Abdala Abdel Algyoum Abddalias, 54-year-old father of four, and founding member of El Gedaref Salvation Initiative, told Amnesty International last year how he was abused by agents of Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS). “I was taken to a courtyard and made to stand facing the wall until sunset. Then seven agents started to whip me and beat me with sticks. When I resisted their instruction to take off my clothes, they ripped off my shirt and trouser and threatened to rape me with a stick. They also stopped beating me at evening prayer time. They promised to come back after prayers to continue torturing me,” he said. Another victim, Mohamed Salah Mohammed Abderhman, was a 5th year student at the University of Khartoum when he and others were arrested by heavily armed NISS agents in June 2012, from a restaurant in Khartoum. There was no warrant of arrest. “They took us to the NISS political offices and beat and abused us, making us feel as if it was the end of our lives. The humiliation and vulgar words continued [for days], then high-ranking officials began to threaten us,” he said in a video testimony. His “crime” was taking part in peaceful protests calling for a change in government. He was held in detention for eight weeks. Mohammed and Abdala are among thousands of people, including local and foreign journalists, who are arbitrarily arrested, abused and tortured in Sudan. Amnesty International has documented and reported a number of cases of arbitrary arrests and torture of journalists, lawyers, human rights defenders, doctors, political activists and students. In February 2018, the government released 79 political prisoners, but at least another 61 remain in detention. The NISS has broad powers of arrest and detention under the National Security Act 2010. This Act has systematically been used as an instrument to intimidate, silence, and punish political opponents. NISS has the power to detain suspects for up to four-and-a-half months without judicial review. The same law also shields NISS agents from prosecution, resulting in a pervasive culture of impunity. In 2016 and 2017, Amnesty International documented testimonies from victims and their families on the systematic and widespread use of torture in Sudan. Most victims are kidnapped from their homes, offices, or the streets and held unlawfully and get tortured. The unlawful detentions last for months, even over a year, incommunicado. Some are released after they are made to sign a commitment not to oppose the government. Sudan is a signatory of the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment since 1986 but it is yet to ratify the Convention more than 30 years later. In the periodic reviews of its human rights record by the UN Human Rights Council, the government has been accepting recommendations to ratify the same but has never. Last year, the government said it was taking steps to ratify the Convention. Amnesty is hopeful that this will come to pass soon. It is high time Sudan turned a page in history by ratifying the Convention Against Torture, and repealed its domestic laws and practices to end torture. Ahmed Elzobier is Amnesty International’s regional researcher for the Sudan.   Countries that share the Nile river have argued over the use of its waters for decades. Kigali once again denies existence of controversial deal to receive African immigrants.