Poultry breeders in Tanzania want the government to block imports of poultry and its products to protect their business. The Tanzania Poultry Breeders Association (TPBA) secretary-general Manase Mrindwa said they have the capacity to supply about 85 per cent of the local market needs. He said that an 18 per cent waiver on value added tax on poultry feeds had attracted more investment in production, but the illegal trade in eggs and newly-hatched chicks from neighbouring countries was threatening the growth of the business. “We ask the government to ban importation of eggs to Tanzania to create fair competition in the business,” said Mr Mrindwa. Tanzania in 2016 banned the importation of chicks and fresh poultry meat to protect farmers. However, day-old chicks and eggs from Kenya, Zambia, South Africa and Brazil have been penetrating the local market. On October 31 last year, government authorities in Arusha destroyed 6,400 chicks imported from Kenya through the Namanga border point. Another consignment of 5,000 one-day old chicks imported without a permit through the northern Namanga border were burnt in February this year, following protests from local breeders and business people. The estimated chicken population in Tanzania is 32 million commercially bred birds — 24 million broilers and eight million layers. The country’s per capita consumption of chicken is estimated at 15kg per year. Commercial poultry production remains low due to high capital investment, unorganised market for poultry and its products, unreliable supply of day-old chicks and quality poultry feeds, high cost of veterinary services and bird feed, and the lack of poultry processing industries, TPBA said. Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, Abdalah Ulega said last month that the government is looking to control the inflow of fresh meat, milk, fish and poultry products.   Chicks impounded at the Namanga border. Abiy Ahmed pledges to address grievances in his native Oromiya region. Government orders an investigation into the circumstances of the crash.