A female artists’ group show is the first of its kind in Rwanda. Established at Kigali’s Impact Hub in Kiyovu, the exhibition, which started on March 22, is the first ever joint show for women artists in the country. The exhibition was curated by Judith Kaine, the founder of the Kurema, Kureba, Kwiga social project that uses street art to engage youth and communities to embrace their creativity. The show brings together six artists — from the self-taught to those coming from art schools. There are paintings on canvas, drawings on paper, and mixed media art works. Among the artists is Lynkah, with several pieces on show. The 2017 Ecole d’Art de Nyundo graduate says she is inspired by nature. She uses acrylics on canvas. One of her pieces, titled Melanin is a portrait of three African women wearing head-wraps and jewellery. Greta Ingabire says her semi-abstract works are a representation of life. Ivy Dickson uses ink on white canvas for her semi-abstract works. Dickson is also a tattoo artist. One of her paintings, titled Fearless, is a portrait of a young women with bird feathers for hair. Hortance Kamikazi experiments with a variety of materials. As a mixed media artist, she uses metal, wire mesh, plastics, coins, wood, as well as acrylics on canvas, to create contemplative pieces. Kamikazi is also inspired by African culture and nature. Lola Kutty’s oil and acrylic works are also on show at the exhibition. The paintings are part of her 2016 collection, which she exhibited previously in Kigali. The 28 year old Indian is inspired by African images and icons. Poupoute Tabaro’s unique works are on scrolls. She draws faces intertwined with flowers, leaves and other shapes. The seven scrolls collection was inspired by her experience with musicians and producers at Uganda’s Nyege Nyege Festival. She later created the works during her art residency at the Boutique Electronic Villa in Kampala, last year.   Freedom of expression was the most violated of human rights in 2017. Kenyan sugar-based products denied preferential access to Uganda and Tanzania.