Kenya Sevens put up a near-perfect performance to demolish France 34-0 at the National Stadium in Singapore on Saturday. Speedsters Collins Injera and Billy “The Kid” Odhiambo stole the show as Kenya recovered from their 28-19 defeat to England to crush the Frenchmen and revive their hopes of reaching Singapore Sevens Cup quarterfinals. Injera grabbed thrilling hat-trick of tries while Odhiambo went for a brace as Kenya touched down six times to annihilate France. Thrilling show It was a thrilling show from Kenya, who tackled well to win many turnovers amidst good defending as they led 19-0 at the break. Kenya had lost to England 28-19 in their Pool “B” opening match. Kenya must now beat Mike Friday’s USA in their last match at 2.44pm if they hope to make it to their seventh Cup quarterfinal this season. England kept a clean run when they edged out USA 19-14 after the Americans had beaten France 33-12 in their opening duel. Injera’s hat-trick, his fourth try of the tournament, saw him stretch his World Sevens Series tally to 258 tries to continue holding on to second place behind England's Dan Norton. Kenya won a penalty at their 22m metres, Samuel Oliech kicked for touch before Injera grabbed the lineout delivery before slicing through to score. Oliech converted to give Kenya a 7-0 lead. Kenya struck again immediately when Injera hauled the ball from the maul before putting through Odhiambo, who put on the wheels on the blind side for Kenya second try. Oliech missed the extras. Kenya defended well to deny the Frenchmen possession as Injera took off with a scintillating dummy and handoff at the middle before accelerating to score.Oliech added the extras for a 19-0 lead at the break. Injera would claim a turnover at the breakdown to complete his hat-trick of tries as Kenya bullied the Frenchmen in every facet of play. Then Injera turned provider from a maul to set up Odhiambo for his brace. Eden Agero missed the extras but Kenya led 29-0. Andrew Amonde then capped off the brilliant performance with try on the far.   Kenyan sugar-based products denied preferential access to Uganda and Tanzania. Juba not comfortable with free movement of persons in a common market.