The Rwandan government has set up a second land data recovery centre and mirroring centre to ease access to land services and protect land documentation. The Rwanda Land Management and Use Authority (RLMUA) unveiled a Rwf1.2 billion ($1.1 million) multifunction facility to serve as office of the Registrar of Land Titles for the Eastern region, a national training centre for land administration services and a data-mirroring centre. “The servers hosted here will be able to replicate in real time the land database from the servers at the national data centre and reflect it to an offsite data-mirroring centre,” said Esperance Mukamana, RLMUA director-general. Uninterrupted services According to Mrs Mukamana, the facility, built in Rwamagana district of Eastern provinces, will help store the institution’s surveying equipment and other archives for land documentation. The data-recovery centre will also ensure uninterrupted land administration services in case the national data centre systems fail. According to land ministry officials, the centre is expected to start offering services next month, while also serving as a training centre for land officers. “The facility will help reduce the time taken and long process involved in getting land titles as both the district and regional offices are under the same roof,” Pothin Muvara, the Eastern zonal land manager told Rwanda Today. Rwanda Today learnt that this is among the last projects funded by the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID) in the land reform process in the country, as the nine years of co-operation with RLMUA are ending in June. Sarah Metcalf, the head of DFID Rwanda, hailed the partnership as it will enable citizens to get title deeds for their land. “We have been working over the years to ensure there are sustainable land management systems going forward, so people maximise on benefits of having titles for their land,” Ms Metcalf told Rwanda Today. Since 2009, DFID has provided about 60 per cent of total investments of Rwf64.2 billion ($73.8 million). The money has gone towards the land reform sector; demarcating and registration of 11.4 million titles of land, out of which eight million titles have been issued.   Despite reforms to digitise transfer of property, land notaries are still encountering difficulties in completing transactions. Abiy Ahmed's choice as PM is seen as a move to maintain stability in the country. Governor Patrick Njoroge says that the law could be repealed as early as June.