Kenya has declared the opposition Nasa's National Resistance Movement (NRM) an organised criminal group after its officials sworn-in Raila Odinga in a mock inauguration Tuesday. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, in making the declaration, cited Prevention of Organised Crimes Act 2010. “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 22 of the Act, the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Interior and Co-ordination of National Government declares National Resistance Movement (NRM) to be organised criminal group for the purposes of the Act,” read a gazette notice dated January 30. NRM now joins a list that also includes terrorist groups like Al Shabaab and outlawed brutal tribal gang Mungiki. NRM says it agitates, through non-violent resistance, for electoral reforms and boycott of products and services provided by companies deemed to be pro-government. By gazetting, the public is warned against getting involved in activities of the proscribed groups, failure to which harsh penalties of up to Ksh1 million (about $10,000) are imposed including life imprisonment for those who do. Previous security ministers have on occasions proscribed various groups. Some outlawed groups in Kenya include: 1. Al-Shabaab 2. Amachuma 3. Angola Msumbiji 4. Banyamulenge 5. Baghdad Boys 6. Charo Shutu 7. Chinkororo 8. Coast Housing Land Network 9. Congo by Force 10. Dallas Muslim Youth 11. Forty Brothers 12. Forty-two Brothers 13. Jeshi la Embakasi 14. Jeshi la Mzee 15. Jeshi la King’ole 16. Japo Group 17. Kamjesh 18. Kamukunji Youth Group 19. Kaya Bombo Youth 20. Kenya Youth Alliance 21. Kosovo Boys 22. Kuzacha 23. Makande Army 24. Mombasa Republican Council 25. Mungiki Movement, Mungiki Organisation, Mungiki Sect 28. Republican Revolutionary Council 29. Sabaot Land Defence Force 30. Sakina Youth 31. Sungu Sungu 32. Siafu 33. Taliban   Odinga's running mate Kalonzo and other Nasa leaders skip event. UNHCR chief Filippo Grandi in Nairobi to appeal for fresh funding for South Sudan refugees. Interior Minister say Raila Odinga's "swearing-in" itself under investigation.