If you have spent most of last year accumulating frequent flyer miles, you might want to consider redeeming then now. Here’s why. Airlines with loyalty programmes offering miles or points have deliberately designed such affinity schemes to be a top attraction factor with most always promising “a host of benefits” to members. For instance, where the benefits promised are miles, flyers can easily know how many miles they can earn, spend and use for upgrades depending on the route they want to fly — a simple check on the airline website will give all this information. What would the travel season then have to do with miles earning or spending? Using seasonal demand to their advantage, airlines determine how miles are earned and when it is easy to redeem and spend them on award flights. We are coming out of the busy end of year travel season, which leaves a number of airlines with little demand for air travel in February and March. The general global air travel trend is that demand starts picking up again in the month of May leading to a peak in July before relenting again in September. End of year demand is usually not as high as the midyear spike but the two peaks are characterised by high fares and very few offers from airlines as they do not need to stimulate demand. To reap the maximum benefits from such demand periods, cheaper fares are deliberately never available — hence the “expensive fares” notion around peak travel seasons. However, points or miles earning on those higher fares are also comparatively higher than on the cheaper fares. During the low travel seasons on the other hand, most airlines will have all sorts of offers as they try to encourage travel — costs for airlines remain more or less constant regardless of season. Some of these offers are designed to reward the very regular frequent flyer as opposed to the discount fare shopper who is always on the lookout for the lowest fare. In the next two months, there will be a flurry of promotional activity from airlines — it would be worth your while if you confirmed in the terms and conditions if the fare under promotion is eligible for redeeming miles. No points for fare on offer While no advertisement may indicate it openly, most of the promotional airline fares do not earn you points or miles. And if they do, it would be a fraction of the miles compared to those earned from full fare. Two main principles apply with miles earning; one — the higher the fare class you purchase, the more miles you earn and two, your status in the loyalty programme counts towards your earning. A case in point is the Nairobi-London route on Flying Blue (the Kenya Airways/KLM frequent flyer programme). This February the programme has an offer of 1,063 miles on the cheapest economy class fare while you get 5,313 miles on the highest business class fare for the same route as the lowest tier member. On the same route, a platinum member travelling on the cheapest economy class fare would get 2,126 miles and 9,563 miles on the highest business class fare. To keep the miles savvy traveller away from getting tempted with promotional fares, some airlines will also do limited period double miles promotions during this season on some routes. A closer look will reveal that only some fares — mostly the higher ones are eligible for such promotions. Apart from the miles promotions, spending miles on award tickets during this low travel season is probably easier than at the peak season. Generally, airlines will make it punitive to redeem miles for award tickets during the busy periods meaning you might need more miles — in fact there are instances when you cannot use award miles on certain flights. During a travel slump, you could also consider redeeming miles for an upgrade to a higher class. But even with sufficient miles, an upgrade is not guaranteed and there could be situations where such an upgrade will involve travelling on a different airline in the same alliance. If you are aiming for an upgrade using miles, start the process well in advance and keep in mind such award tickets are exclusive of taxes and other surcharges applicable. These have to be paid separately. Lastly, award or upgrade tickets are not eligible to earn more miles or points. Michael Otieno an aviation consultant and travel writer based in Nairobi. Twitter: @mosafariz; Email: michael@sadimsolutions.com   25 per cent of the GDP of African countries is said to be lost to corruption every year. Rwanda's Ngoga was elected Speaker despite a boycott by Burundi and Tanzania MPs.