Scientists have urged the Tanzanian government to protect red colobus monkeys, which are mainly found in Zanzibar. A team of New York-based Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) found that there are only 5,800 of the primates mostly in government protected areas in Zanzibar. Survival rate of the young primates is low as hunting is common while the forest habitat which Zanzibar red Piliocolobus kirkii depends on is being cleared for housing. WCS Tanzania country director Tim Davenport said Piliocolobus kirkii is considered one of East Africa’s endangered primates as it is on International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list of endangered species. The scientists who spent two years in the field estimate Zanzibar red colobus population comprises of 5,826 individual primates in 342 groups which is about three times more than previously estimated. Scientists recommended kirkii to be named Zanzibar’s government official animal and creation of new wildlife protected areas to safeguard and increase primate numbers. Human activities WCS said Zanzibar loses over 19 square kilometres of forests annually due to agricultural activities, residential development, human population growth and hunting of kirki for food. Zanzibar’s endemic red colobus Piliocolobus kirkii: First systematic and total assessment of population, demography and distribution report said 69 per cent of monkey’s population lives inside Unguja’s protected area network. Recent hotel and residential developments have destroyed the forest habitat in Uroa, Mchangamle, Kiwengwa, Jambiani, Chwaka, Nungwi, Fumba and Michamvi. Dr Davenport who presented the study’s results to Zanzibar’s government said the red colobus monkey was a test of how conservation can succeed in protecting wildlife and habitat. Symbol for Zanzibar govt “The species could serve as a fitting symbol for Zanzibar and government’s foresight in wildlife management,” he said. WCS will work with Zanzibar to initiate programmes to protect primates and archipelago’s remaining forests. Jozani–Chwaka Bay national Park in 2016 accrued revenue of $334,600 mostly due to Piliocolobus kirkii viewing. Kiwengwa, Masingini, Uzi and Jambiani–Muyuni can be established as Zanzibar red colombus habitats Sites surveyed included Jozani–Chwaka Bay national park, Masingini and Kiwengwa forest reserve, Kichwele, Dunga and Kibele forest reserve plantations. At each site, researchers collected data using global positioning system (GPS) units and binoculars. Grid reference positions of Zanzibar red colobus monkey group were recorded routinely by GPS every 15 minutes.   The Eastern Mountain Bongo is found only in Kenya and is critically endangered. Shabaab member is passed to someone working with the government. Mr Mnangagwa says he is committed to a non-violent election.