Judicaelle Irakoze, 23, is the founder of Choose Yourself, a women's rights organisation, and Girl Talk. She is Burundian, and a student at the University of Massachusetts. She has started a programme to support Burundian women in refugee camps in Rwanda. She is also a blogger and aspiring writer, and will soon release her book, Yes, I am Loud. -------------------------------------------------- You subscribe to the #MenAreTrash hashtag which has generated controversy and portrays you as aggressive towards men, or “anti-men.” First of all, I love men. I need to make this clear. Some people have misunderstood me and think that I hate men. I have amazing men in my life. #MenAreTrash is not my hashtag. It originated from South Africa. At the beginning of 2017, women were being killed in South Africa under violent circumstances and they were angry because the government was not doing much. So they came up with the hashtag as an angry voice screaming “we are tired of being killed at the hands of our men, our boyfriends, our lovers.” At first I did not relate to it because I have all these great men in my life. But then I cannot allow my privilege to ignore the real world. I talked to women in South Africa and asked questions, looked deeply into the issue, and realised that when they say “Men are Trash” it is not about individuals but it is about a system — a patriarchal system in which being a man comes with power. They are saying that the system that endorses men is trash. Trash is something that is expired and needs to be changed. That is what the hashtag is all about. What inspired you to be a women rights activist? It started when I set up my fashion company, Abigaelle Closet, in 2015. I wanted to start my own business because all my life I have been in business with my dad. I allowed young women to join me to build the company. We use fashion to empower lives. Working with women I realised that the narrative that girls can’t sit together or can’t build things together because of jealousy or envy was wrong. I was working with passionate women who shared my vision. It made me realise that women can be good sisters. Our society is patriarchal and has conditioned women that way for centuries. and more so now with all the pressure we get from social media. When I left for the US, I realised that I had left a bubble that my family had created around me — an environment where you are protected by your parents. But then I went to live alone in the US, one of the countries that people say gender equity and equality is better, and I realised that it is a lie. In the US, there is a huge pay gap between men and women. I experienced sexual assault there. I said to myself, “Is this what women go through daily?” If I wasn’t privileged and protected by my family, I would have seen this sooner. I started to speak out for my womanhood and tell the world that women need to be as free as men are. Women deserve the same opportunities, the same conditions and the same freedoms men get. What drives you? It is a family thing, to be honest. What drives me is my own womanhood. Yes, I am still young. But leaving home at a young age and living abroad exposed me to a lot of things, and those things made me realise that there is no safe place for a woman regardless of her age. I want a world where I can live freely. Second, I want to step forward for my sisters, my cousins and every woman who I meet. I want to be treated as a human being regardless of the fact that I am a woman. Let us be honest, women are treated as sexual objects before anything else. We get labelled according to how we look, how we dress, etc. I just want to be considered a human with a voice, a mind, a body and a soul before you say “Oh, she has nice lips.” You use social media to raise awareness and advance your views and ideas. What else do you do? I started Choose Yourself last year. I wanted to be in a place where I can focus on women and make it a home for women who want freedom, liberation, and feel supported. We are a US-based organisation, registered in Portland, Maine, but global in terms of our work and programmes. How do you reach women at the grassroots? We have started a programme called Girl Talk. We bring women together to put a name to their experiences and talk about their issues. We have a “pre-Girl Talk” event where we invite women and men to talk about feminism and women empowerment. We use this platform to reach out to all women, including those at the grassroots. What challenges do you encounter in your work? I experience many challenges, mostly from people who don’t understand that the work I do is for myself first. I encounter people who don’t understand that the world is rough for women. Most of them are born with privilege that keeps them in a bubble not realising what the real world is going through. I meet women who have had good men in their lives and don’t realise that there is a woman in the village beaten by her husband every day and she cannot speak. I travelled to Uganda in the summer to help women who have fistula, and I realised that men have been throwing them out of their homes. I deal with privileged women who say, “What you are doing is not really relevant. We are in 2018. Women are no longer oppressed.” I tell them just because they live in the city and their husbands are educated does not mean that is the case for every woman. I also deal with men with fragile egos, but I keep focusing on what I do. Where do you see Choose Yourself in five or 10 years? I see Choose Yourself being a movement. Choose Yourself is more than just an organisation. It is a movement to bring women together so that we can shape our voices and then invite our men to listen to us. What kind of childhood did you have? I was born in Bujumbura, in 1994. I was raised by my father, alongside my brother and three sisters as well as cousins who lived with us. I grew up with many women around me. I would say my father is a “feminist” who raised his daughters in a society that regulates how they should be raised. My dad gave me space to be ambitious and dream. Being a businessman, he allowed me into his space to grow my business acumen. He always pushed me to be the best. Growing up, I used to be the first in my class. I remember one time I came in second, and he told me I should always be first because I was the best. He told me I could do great things. He said that to all my sisters and brother, and I believe I am who I am today because of that. Tell us about your education. I went to public schools in Burundi. I went to SOS Mutanga Nord and Mutanga Sud School for my early education, and Lycée de Saint-Exupéry for secondary education where I studied science. Now I am at the University of Massachusetts, Boston, where I am studying biochemistry. I am going into my third year. I moved to the US six years ago to pursue my studies.   Judicaelle Irakoze, 23, is the founder of Choose Yourself, a women's rights organisation, and Girl Talk. Rwanda's Ngoga was elected Speaker despite a boycott by Burundi and Tanzania MPs. Economic empowerment of Ugandans remains the veteran leaders’ biggest failure.