Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta created a new position in the state bureaucracy when he announced more members of his Cabinet on Friday, almost one month after filling the initial slots. The new position of chief administrative secretary appeared intended to reward politicians from outside his ruling Jubilee Party strongholds who withstood hostilities in opposition-leaning areas. Filling the Cabinet has proved tricky for President Kenyatta because of the many interests fronting for positions, either as rewards for their role in his campaign last year or to ensure ethnic balance in top government positions. Another trend in the appointments was that the Cabinet Secretaries who were dropped were appointed as ambassadors, many to UN agencies. READ: Uhuru names more Cabinet nominees The chief administrative secretary will be the second in command in ministries after the CS, a position that places them above principal secretaries who are the accounting officers. The position marks the return in everything but name of the assistant minister’s portfolio, which was scrapped by the 2010 Constitution. In President Kenyatta’s first term, CSs who were mostly technocrats with no clout at the grassroots, are said to have brought little to the table in terms of community support that could be banked on during elections. However, several slots in the ministries were left vacant to be filled in later. With acrimony still hanging over the country after Kenya’s main opposition coalition Nasa boycotted a repeat election ordered by the Supreme Court on October 26, President Kenyatta has been wooing leaders from regions that did not back him for roles in his government. There has been talk of attempts to bring senior Nasa leaders into government. Among the notable changes was the removal of Foreign Affairs cabinet secretary Amina Mohamed, who has been moved to the education docket. Ms Mohamed led a spirited diplomatic shuttle diplomacy when President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto were facing cases at the International Criminal Court. She particularly lobbied leaders from the continent at the African Union summits until the cases were dropped.   Rwanda's Ngoga was elected Speaker despite a boycott by Burundi and Tanzania MPs. Economic empowerment of Ugandans remains the veteran leaders’ biggest failure.