Health inspectors from the Rwanda Agriculture Livestock Inspection and Certification Services (Ralis) recently closed down butcheries that did not meet set hygiene standards. The exercise saw 40 out of 114 butcheries shut. The decision to close non-compliant butcheries was communicated at a January 19 meeting between stakeholders and Ralis. “The inspectors found some butchers were selling potentially dangerous meat preserved using harmful chemical substances or containing metal debris from the substandard tools they were using to cut the meat,” said Isidore Nsengimana, an inspector of animal products in the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources. The butcheries that were closed were found to be using poorly maintained cutters to slice meat beef, lacked cold facilities to store meat safely, or shops located next to barber shops, dusty surroundings or near drainage systems, or operating in premises smaller than 20 square metres. The butchers who say they cannot afford the equipment have threatened to pass on the additional costs to the consumer. “Electricity charges are high and it is expensive to switch on the fridge the whole day. Many of us try to work around this by using the freezers only part of the day to save on the cost of power,” said Nzayisingiza Jackson, a butcher in Kicukiro district. Officials from Ralis say those that feel they cannot meet the regulations should close their shops. The regulations are intended to promote safety and consumer confidence in the products they buy from butchers. “Running a small butchery that meets the basic standards could require as much as Rwf2.5 million ($2,950) because a small meat cutting machine costs around Rwf1.2 million ($1,416). This amount is not easy to get,” said Leonidas Ntawizera, a butcher from Jabana Sector in Gasabo District. Individuals working in butcheries or slaughterhouses are also required to undergo regular medical checkups for communicable diseases. Many were found not to comply with this regulation as well.   Conservationists say construction defied a court order halting the project. Regional bloc says its ready for action as reports of ceasefire violations rise.