I was hardly done with saying that Donald Trump is the American version of an African Big Man when the dotard came out with one of those gems of his. You see, the man suffers from verbal diarrhoea, the incontinence that afflicts some people rendering them unable to stop things coming out of them through an orifice in their head. You have to wonder what kind of family Trump grew up in. Because, you see, there is what African-Americans call PWT (Poor White Trash) — whites who are so badly off they are almost black. But this one ain’t one of them, because he seems to have been born with the proverbial silver spoon in the mouth. But then PWT status should be extended to rich kids wanting manners, and Trump truly lacks manners. Not that I mind, mark you, because he is pure recreational value; he is so good that I suspect CNN is raising its ratings simply through Don-bashing. I must admit I am hooked to the channel myself. The other day, he was talking about Haitians and Africans who go to the US as immigrants, describing their countries as poop-pits, which angered so many people I can hardly understand. Trump was being Trump, and this is what Trump does. He half-thinks something, and before he has time to understand what it is, it is out of his orifice. Why are we so susceptible to anger when people who can’t hold their tongues tell us the truth? We would be better off if we asked ourselves why we do the kind of things that make half-mad people tell us we are from Crapstan. Half-mad people have the uncanny habit of telling the truth without knowing it, especially when it is full moon because, I am told, lunacy is about the moon and the changing tides. Africans who love to bash Trump are being hypocritical, especially when they loathe him for speaking the truth. As a Nigerian on social media put it, he owns up to being a citizen of Crapstan, a country that is rich in petrol but has no petrol to keep the lights on. People, let’s be serious. You know you are a citizen of the Republic of Crap if you have no right against any state official who wants to clobber you on the head or shoot you because they don’t like the way you think or what you said; you are arrested arbitrarily and denied bail and kept in remand indefinitely because of a trumped-up charge (sic). Don’t blame Trump for his foul mouth when he tells you that you are a foul lot; don’t shoot the messenger, just block your nostrils and listen to the message. I’d rather we railed against Trump for the same reason as Jeff Flake, the Republican senator who recently ploughed into the US president and castigated him for his attacks on free media. Flake was taking no prisoners when he compared Trump’s expression, “enemy of the people,” to the words of Joseph Stalin when the Soviet leader was referring to people who opposed him. Flake suggested that Trump’s attacks on free media lend strength to tyrants across the world who hate journalists they cannot control or buy. Listening to them now, they are repeating his words. Our despots must love Trump to distraction, even if they don’t say so. After all, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. There is nothing new in Trump’s remarks that should get us worked up. We are being attacked and abused on a daily basis by people who honestly think we are sub-human, simply because we do things that are sub-human. This state of affairs will continue to dog us until we emerge from this self-imposed and protracted infancy. We have to grow up and do things that grown-ups do: Like treating each other with respect. Like observing the basic rights of all our people to live free lives and to have unfettered opinions, economic and political choices. Like using our resources for our development instead of giving them out for a song while we beg for alms from the same people we give our resources. Like being fully human, responsible and accountable. Otherwise, scatological Trump will continue calling our countries poop-pits, and he will be right. Jenerali Ulimwengu is chairman of the board of the Raia Mwema newspaper and an advocate of the High Court in Dar es Salaam. E-mail: jenerali@gmail.com   Shabaab member is passed to someone working with the government. Mr Mnangagwa says he is committed to a non-violent election.