Watercolours are a more challenging medium to paint with than oils or acrylics, because they tend to run, the colours bleed into each other, and the surface can get overworked because of the fluidity of the medium. But Kenyan artist Patrick Karanja seems to have understood the nature of watercolours. “For an artist to master watercolour, they must know what they don’t want to paint, and expect occasional surprises from the water,” he said. Some of his urban scenes and rural landscape paintings are on show at the Polka Dot Art Gallery in Nairobi. Downtown is of a city street, painted in overlapping shades of dark grey and pale pink that give this commonplace scene a semi-abstract feel. “My work is a reflection of the crude appearances I see,” says Karanja who graduated with a degree in industrial design and fine arts from St Lawrence University in Uganda. He says that choice of medium comes down to a personal preference and what an artist finds comfortable to use. Fishing Bay is a grey-blue painting of two rowing boats from an aerial perspective. It is a simple composition with subtle colour changes in the lake water. Karanja got interested in watercolours from looking at textbook illustrations, which led him to experimenting and then working with the paints. His images are of every-day activities, looking at socio-economic urban trends such as youth joblessness, street families and low-income transport. Conveyance is an expressionist painting of a woman and two children riding bicycles against a semi-transparent indigo background. A bearded man with sunglasses playing a guitar entertains dancers in an untitled watercolour (above) that has a sandy-yellow backdrop. In both, Karanja leaves empty spaces in the upper frame that effectively point your attention to the core subjects. Besides watercolours, Karanja is also experimenting with dry point etching techniques. More of his works can be seen at his studio at Kuona Trust Centre in Nairobi, and at the Saatchi online gallery.   Rwanda's Ngoga was elected Speaker despite a boycott by Burundi and Tanzania MPs. Economic empowerment of Ugandans remains the veteran leaders’ biggest failure.