A global travel and leisure group has ranked Kenyan and Tanzanian parks among top 2018 destinations that offer most transformative travel experiences. The Travel Corporation (TTC) mentioned the model of 11-day East African safari in urban Nairobi, which heads off to the game-rich grassy plains of Kenya’s Maasai Mara and Tanzania’s Serengeti, among the 2018 top 10 list of transformative travel experiences. During the safari, guests stay in luxurious camps and participate in daytime and night-time game drives in search of predators and prey.  The trip ends with a three-night seaside stay on the spice island of Zanzibar. “Our guests are seeking worldwide journeys that are not only experiential but which also cultivate deeper connections with the places they are exploring and include meaningful interactions with nature, wildlife, local people and cultures,” said TTC chief executive Brett Tollman. Family business The family-owned company, now in its fourth generation, offers more than 1,000 trips spanning 60 countries on six continents. The company said this curated list of trips recognises that travellers no longer want to simply journey but also seek out adventures that are personally fulfilling and return home transformed with a positive perspective and an expanded view of the world. They said they were also aware that guests want to connect with other like-minded travellers to discover and share these experiences together in “travel tribes”, which the company has been creating. Destinations Other destinations mentioned include best of Norway Trafalgar, India’s golden triangle and the sacred Ganges River cruises, London to Berlin Contiki, European vacations, British Royale luxury gold, Australia journeys, the English Carnations Hotel, and the Rhine U. Kenya has for long been a top destination for safari seekers showcasing its wealth of wildlife. 
  
Kenyans went to Tanzania for meetings and conferences, business and to visit friends. 
The awards will recognise firms that have been successful in integrating their vision. 
Report says Kenyans’ resolve to be peaceful prevented the country from plunging into war.