Journalist Alexis Okeowo, who was born to Nigerian parents in the US, always felt like an outsider to both her African and American heritage. She only travelled to Africa once as a child. As a budding writer, she became dissatisfied with writing short stories that only scratched the surface of issues she felt strongly about. It was during a 10-month internship at a Ugandan newspaper that her obsession with the African continent began. Now Okeowo has written her first book, A Moonless, Starless Sky: Ordinary Women and Men Fighting Extremism in Africa. Here she covers familiar conflict stories from across the continent but from the inside out, through the lens of victims and survivors. Despite the unwieldy title, this is a collection of four, easy-to-follow true stories. Bosco was recruited as a child soldier for the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), an unorthodox Christian rebel group fighting the government of Uganda. Eunice, a school girl, was abducted by the LRA and forced to become Bosco’s “bush wife.” Despite their violent introduction, the two grew deeply fond of each other. Eventually they escaped with their young son and returned home. However, surviving war is not a straightforward matter. Bosco and Eunice speak of being treated as outcasts by neighbours who were terrorised by the LRA. Their son suffers transgenerational trauma inherited from the couple. Even Okeowo admits to being personally affected as she researched the stories of the abductees and their suffering. On the other side of the continent in Nigeria, is another school girl abduction. Rebecca is one of almost 300 so-called Chibok girls kidnapped by Boko Haram Islamic insurgents from Chibok in 2014. Her story is told alongside that of Elder, a successful Muslim business man who takes on the almost impossible task of flushing out religious extremists in the towns and villages. Still on Islamic fundamentalism, Somalia’s Al Shabaab insurgency is well reported. But little is heard about the lives of children in Somalia. Aisha is a 14-year old girl living in Mogadishu and an avid basketball player. It is a dangerous passion to have in a country where women have almost no rights. Facing the disapproval of her family, threatening phone calls and little support from the sports authorities, she continues playing. This is probably the most guileless of the four narratives. Reading how this young girl is fighting for the little freedom she can get in a turbulent society is inspiring. Mauritania was the last country in the world to abolish slavery, in 1981. Okeowo’s story follows the life of Biram Dah Abeid, a former slave who is now a prominent anti-slavery activist. He reveals how mental subjugation is as powerful as physical chains, when his mother initially refuses to be freed from the only life she has ever known. But when the White Moors justify slavery with Islamic texts, Biram, a Muslim, shocks the country by burning holy books. A Moonless, Starless Sky is written partly in reportage style, with direct quotes from the real characters, but the author at some point brings in too many new characters that interfere with the flow of the main story. Okeowo has combined her journalistic training with her natural instincts to write insightful stories of resistance from Africa’s war zones.   Rwanda's Ngoga was elected Speaker despite a boycott by Burundi and Tanzania MPs. Economic empowerment of Ugandans remains the veteran leaders’ biggest failure.