The annual Abryanz Style and Fashion Awards (ASFAS) will be held at the Kampala Serena Hotel on December 7. Started in 2013 as a fashion event to celebrate African designers and industry stakeholders, it brings together fashion designers, models, stylists, hair and makeup artists, media personalities, and industry influencers from around the continent and beyond. Now in its sixth edition, the theme is “Fashion is Power” and seeks to highlight fashion as an integral part of cultural identity and also provide avenues and opportunities that are key to the growth of African economies by diversifying and tackling unemployment. This year's events is sponsored by Ciroc Ultra-Premium Vodka, and will highlight the transition of the fashion industry over the years with celebrity red carpet appearances, fashion show by Africa’s top designers and models, blended with performances by both local and international artistes. There are 13 award categories: Lifetime/Style Fashion Icon Achievement Award; Humanitarian Award for Work in Fashion; Fashion Entrepreneur of the Year; Model of the Year (Uganda and Africa); Designer of the Year (Uganda and Africa); Fashion Stylist of the Year (Uganda and Africa); Hair Stylist of the Year (Uganda and Africa); Makeup Artiste of the Year (Uganda and Africa); Fashion Photographer of the Year (Uganda and Africa); Most Stylish Celebrity (Uganda and Africa); Most Stylish Artiste (Uganda and Africa); Fashionable Music Video of the Year (Uganda and Africa); and Fashionista of the Year (Uganda and Africa). Nominations for the awards opened on August 27 and closed on September 27 this year. In the week building up to the awards, the organisers will hold a Fashionprenuer Expo to empower and inspire people in the fashion business as well as equip them with business skills. The awards ceremony will be broadcast live on NTV Uganda, via DSTV Channel 283, and GoTV 372 on December 7, at 5pm EA time. The show will also be streamed live on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube channels.   President Magufuli says that the aim of having the EAC was about easing business. Scientists took 22 years to realise modest results from a trial on HIV vaccine.