In his acceptance speech in Oslo, Denis Mukwege, jointly with Nadia Murad the winner of the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize, told his audience and the world a numbing story about a woman called Sarah. Sarah’s husband and children were killed by a militia in the hellhole that is the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. The militia then stripped her naked and tethered her like a goat to tree in the yard. Every day, she would be gang raped. When the militia left, fellow villagers rushed her unconscious to hospital. The hospital staff had little hope she would survival the horrific internal injuries she had suffered. But every day, Sarah encouraged the staff, telling them that she would heal. Today, Dr Mukwege said, she helps rape victims overcome their ordeal. Heart of darkness This story tells many stories in one. The first and most immediate is the story of the depths of barbarity to which human beings can descend. It is the story of the dark instinct that causes people to inflict unimaginable pain on fellow human beings for the sheer pleasure of it. The story diminishes us all because we share a common humanity with the perpetrators. No one, sitting in safe, genteel surroundings, should close their ears, shake their head and disassociate themselves from the perpetrators, saying, “Oh such brutality…” As the protagonist Mr Kurtz reveals in Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, the evil you see in others exists in you. I could remind them that, not long ago, Kenya had torture chambers with a team of men and women whose job, for which they got a cheque at the end of the month, was to torture people. Or the 2007/8 slaughter in which otherwise good Christians fished people out from matatus and hacked them to death because they were the “wrong” kind of Christians, or the Christians who burnt fellow Christians seeking refuge in a church. And let’s not forget that the one million Rwandans killed in 1994 were hacked to death with machetes by neighbours and friends and fellow choir members after undergoing horrendous torture. And lest those outside Africa start feeling self-righteous about all this, let them, too, remember the gassing of Jewish children in the 1940s or the dropping of napalm on villagers in Vietnam. Those of other religions should not shake their heads in a self-satisfied way either. Let them remember those who cut up Jamal Khashoggi in a consulate. Let them remember the extreme atrocities in Yemen and Mosul and Myanmar. No race of beasts The second story is the story of the resilience of the human spirit. The dehumanisation of Sarah did not lead her to desire to dehumanise others. Instead, she emerged from her ordeal with her compassionate heart intact. As novelist Toni Morrison says, beastly actions do not create a race of beasts. Another story is told by the questions Mukwege asked. Why has the world looked the other way as mass rapes and murders become a norm in the DRC? Why has the world encouraged the pillaging of a rich country by its own government in cahoots with foreign profiteers? Why do governments, in Africa and the world, give red carpet treatment to these leaders? Why are there no diplomatic, economic and judicial sanctions on these leaders? The silence of the world, Mukwege was saying, meant it was complicit in the crimes in the DRC. Nadia Murad’s statement in her speech captured this indictment of the world. She wondered how it was possible that the “conscience of 195 countries around the world was not mobilised to liberate Yazidi girls.” In African oral tradition, a story of criminal behaviour always has a lesson to teach its listeners. What does Sarah’s story teach Africans? First, Africa must immediately cease repeating the slogan used to cover extreme atrocities: “Let African problems be solved by Africans.” If this slogan were not a travesty, then, at the very least, it would not have taken a foreign entity to recognise Denis Mukwege’s work. Second, African leaders and intellectuals must henceforth cease pushing the narrative that the ICC is an instrument to further Western imperialism. The Africa Court of Justice, suggested as an alternative to the ICC, is a mockery of Sarah’s suffering. Lastly, Sarah’s story demonstrates that the post-colonial theory through which Africa has sought to understand itself has outlived its usefulness. Sarah’s story calls for an ideological framework that will help Africa understand and solve its problems of grand larceny and the genocidal pogroms that daily convince millions to board rickety boats to cross the sea to go and sweep the streets of Europe.   Government says this is because of growing ties with China. KAA says its application to manage the facility will be granted if it meets approval from the