Mrs Clinton, ex-presidential candidate, secretary of state and first lady, came third in the annual Gallup poll, with talk-show host Oprah Winfrey in second. The Queen finished in the top 10 for the 50th time, Gallup said. Former president Barack Obama was named the man Americans admire most for the 11th year in a row, Gallup said. The poll has been carried out every year since 1946, with the exception of 1976. Former United States first lady Hillary Clinton's 17-year run as the woman Americans admire most is over. Another former first lady, Michelle Obama, has deposed Clinton as America's most admired woman, according to a Gallup poll published on Thursday. Former president Barack Obama was named the man Americans admire most for the 11th year in a row, Gallup said. President Donald Trump finished second in the poll for the fourth year in a row. Gallup has conducted the annual poll every year since 1946 with the exception of 1976. Fifteen percent of the 1,025 Americans polled said the woman they admire most is Michelle Obama, who is currently on a tour promoting her book "Becoming." Talk show host Oprah Winfrey was second with five percent followed by Hillary Clinton and First Lady Melania Trump with four percent. Most Admired Woman Michelle Obama - 15% Oprah Winfrey - 5% Hillary Clinton - 4% Melania Trump - 4% Queen Elizabeth II - 2% Most Admired Man Barack Obama - 19% Donald Trump - 13% George W Bush - 2% Pope Francis - 2% Bill Gates 1% Mrs Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and a former US senator and secretary of state, has topped the list 22 times including the past 17 years in a row. Nineteen percent of those polled said Barack Obama was the man they admired most. Trump was second with 13 percent followed by former president George W. Bush and Pope Francis, who were tied with two percent. Gallup said the survey conducted December 3-12 had a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points.   Currently, there are about 300,000 Suba people and just about 50,000 who speak the language. Hundreds of worshippers stage demonstrations after Friday prayers.