Emirates passengers travelling from or transiting through Dubai International Airport can expect fewer delays thanks to an innovative app called the Hub Monitor. Built in-house by Emirates, the Hub Monitor is being used by operational staff in Dubai to share and monitor real time information to prepare an aircraft for departure. Through its monitoring and proactive alerting system, the application helps avoid delays and improve on-time performance. Emirates executive vice president and chief operations officer Adel Al Redha said the app was developed in line with the airline’s vision to continuously re-examine its processes. “We have introduced this smart and more efficient means to improve our operations resulting in a better passenger experience. “Our operations team in co-ordination with IT have led the development of the hub monitoring system in a record time of five months, building on an existing solution that was already developed by Emirates Engineering. “The team examining the various functions of Hub Monitor in real time are working to roll out further modules, and the next module will be implemented later this month,” he said. Emirates is the world’s largest international airline operating a fleet of 270 modern all wide-body fleet of Airbus A380 and Boeing 777 aircraft. Every day, some 255 Emirates flights depart from Dubai to destinations across six continents. Flights range from less than an hour to over 17 hours. Hub Monitor integrates data from internal platforms and real-time aircraft downlinks. It then provides consolidated data through a single view interface to internal stakeholders. Hub Monitor is mobile enabled, meaning that staff deployed on the aircraft, ramp and in other remote areas can easily access the information. It takes about 105 minutes to turn around the Emirates A380, the world’s largest commercial passenger jet, and about 90 minutes to prepare the Boeing 777 aircraft for departure in Dubai. The application helps teams to proactively recalibrate and minimise the impact of unavoidable or unforeseen delays.   The biometric equipment will afford its customers a seamless journey through the airline’s hub. Sharif claims being targeted by the country's powerful security establishment Kigali officers awarded after training six-month training