Officials of Tanzania's ruling party, Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) emerged out of two key meetings united, contrary to earlier speculation of an expected falling out. The meetings of the Central Committee (CC) and the National Executive Committee (NEC) were preceded by a tiff between the secretary-general, Dr Bashiru Ally, and former Foreign Affairs minister Bernard Membe. Dr Bashiru had accused Mr Membe, an influential member of the party and the main rival of President John Magufuli in the 2015 presidential nomination race, of running an underground campaign to sabotage the president. He further claimed that the former minister was planning to challenge the president for the CCM ticket ahead of the 2020 elections. The secretary general summoned Mr Membe to clear the air over the matter. Mr Membe, who is on record expressing dissatisfaction with President Magufuli’s leadership style, took to social media to express dissatisfaction with Dr Bashiru's approach to the matter. Sources intimated that Mr Membe was off the hook, for now at least, as party officials saw no reason to want to institute disciplinary measures against him. An attempt to do that, it was argued, would be opening a Pandora's Box. For now, sources said that the president emerged stronger and will continue to keep tabs on the supposed underground movements against him. Analysts say Dr Magufuli has adopted a multi-pronged approach to consolidate both his party support and the backing of moneyed businessmen who could be trusted to support and fund his 2020 campaign as manifested in the recent camaraderie with billionaire-businessman Rostam Aziz. President Magufuli has roped in Mr Aziz who for many years was the kingmaker in CCM and bankrolled former president Jakaya Kikwete’s 2005 campaign before a falling apart in 2010, which saw Mr Aziz resign from the party in a huff. Mr Aziz is expected to play a vital role in President's Magufuli presidency going forward. As CCM seeks to avert wrangles, six opposition parties have said they will dedicate 2019 to mobilising the public to demand more democratic space and the release of what they call ''political prisoners'' from detention. But the deputy Minister of Home Affairs Hamad Yusuph Masauni has already warned the opposition that they will face stern action from the state if they dared to go through with their plans. The opposition resolved to have the public action at a three–day meeting in Zanzibar, buyoued by recent interventions by both the European parliament and a coalition of United States senators appear. Representatives of six leading opposition parties — Chadema, Civic United Front (Zanzibar’s main opposition party), NCCR-Mageuzi, National League for Democracy (NLD), Chaumma, and ACT-Wazalendo — who met in Zanzibar in the past week agreed to resume public political gatherings and rallies despite a government ban saying it is within their legal and constitutional rights. They also vowed to bring to the world's attention the presence of bona fide ''political prisoners'' in Tanzania, among them Freeman Mbowe, leader of the main opposition Chadema party. Political battleThe so-called Zanzibar Declaration effectively draws the political battle line in Tanzania. The EU parliamentarians and US senators made separate declarations against actions by President Magufuli against the opposition hardly 24 hours apart, putting pressure on the government on the international diplomatic front. The EU addressed hardline stances on issues like human rights – particularly political rights and LBGT rights - freedom of the press, and freedom of expression. It also took specific aim at the Cybercrimes Act, Online Content Regulations, Media Services Act, and Statistics Act. In a December 12 petition to US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, four members of the US senate committee on foreign relations were equally candid in demanding for tougher Trump administration action against Tanzania for almost exactly the same reasons mapped out by their European counterparts.   The proposed Bill seeks to shield Registrar of Political Parties. The levels of outdoor pollutants in urban areas exceed WHO’s guidelines. Industry players say ceding importation of LPG to private firm denies the country the benefits of