Uganda has released $2 million to three public relations companies to help market its tourism sector. The three PR firms were hired in 2016 under a $1.5 million contract with funding from the World Bank’s Competitiveness and Enterprises Development Project. The EastAfrican has learnt that the government has renewed the contracts for PHG Consulting, which links with firms in the North American market, Kamageo for the UK and Ireland, and KPRN to market Uganda in Germany, Switzerland and Australia. The firms are expected to raise the profile of Uganda as a preferred destination, increase inbound numbers to the country and promote investment opportunities in the tourism sector. Although not yet formally audited for value for money by the Auditor-General, Uganda Tourism Board (UTB) said the marketing effort is yielding positive results. “In the one year we have implemented this programme we have seen an increase in the flights landing at Entebbe. We have also seen increased inquiries about our tour operators,” said UTB chief executive Stephen Asiimwe. Budget Uganda’s marketing budget used to be a paltry $300,000 per annum. The WB released the funds following a study by the Tourism Ministry in 2012 that showed little had been done to promote Uganda’s attractions in spite of the country’s rating as one of the world’s top 10 destinations by industry giants like National Geographic and Lonely Planet. The promotions in source markets are expected to increase arrivals from 1.5 million currently, to four million per year. This ultimately should translate into increased foreign exchange earnings, which Mr Asiimwe said stands at $1.35 million. Locally, efforts are being made to make the sector attractive to investors through revision of tax regimes and improving tourism infrastructure. For example, there is a proposal that tourist with vouchers valued over $300 be exempted from visa fees as the case is in Zambia. However experts said this works on a reciprocal basis and Uganda has secured such an arrangement with Turkey and Qatar.   Industry players are now raising questions over the country’s tourism marketing strategy. Kenya denies claims by a UN official that it is playing a negative role in the conflict in S. Joseph Mbilinyi handed a five-month prison sentence after being found guilty of defaming