A delegation of Israeli opposition politicians and human-rights advocates this week received a cold reception in Kigali, where government officials told them there was nothing to discuss regarding a refugee hosting deal. Two members of the Knesset (the Israeli parliament), Michal Rozin and Mossi Raz, who are members of opposition party Meretz, and their delegation are in Rwanda and are expected to visit Uganda on a fact-finding mission regarding the issue of African migrants set to be deported from Israel. Rwanda and Uganda have been cited as being the ‘third country’ who have reached an agreement with Israel to take in close to 40,000 African refugees in Israel, mainly from Eritrea and Sudan. Both countries have denied the existence of such a deal. Despite denials, thousands of refugees protested in front of the Rwandan embassy in Israel on Wednesday last week, condemned the impending deportations and urged Kigali not to co-operate with Tel Aviv’s controversial decision to deny them asylum and forcibly deporting them. Following the Wednesday protests on Rwanda’s embassy in Herzliya, Tel Aviv, Rwanda’s ambassador to Israel Col Joseph Rutabana assured the protestors that there was no deal with Israel, even though Rwanda maintains an open-door policy for refugees. Ms Rozin told The EastAfrican that they approached Rwandan government officials in Kigali over the matter but they were informed that there is nothing to talk about because there is no such agreement. “The officials told us that there is no agreement between Rwanda and Israel and that is why they don’t see any need to meet us. Before that, we had approached the Rwandan ambassador to Israel requesting to meet him and he said that he would be glad to meet us but there is no agreement,” she said. No legal status “We came here to talk to officials, refugees and agencies that support refugees to hear what they know – whether there is an agreement or not, and if there is, what it entails,” she added, pointing out that they wanted to know the kind of status refugees would get, in case they get to Rwanda. According to Ms Rozin, they found that the refugees once deported to Rwanda will not be accorded refugee status or any other protection. She said the conclusion is based on what they gathered about refugees who were sent to Rwanda and Uganda in the past. She noted that the best they can get is a three-month stay visa which can be renewed but there would be no legal status, social protection, jobs or health insurance. Opposition politicians and human rights agencies have pressured Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his government to abandon the planned deportation of the asylum seekers that the government terms as ‘infiltrators’ and instead, accord them protection. Mr Raz told The EastAfrican that the Israeli policy is ‘purely racist’, pointing out that they do not have an issue with the Rwandan government, but oppose the Israeli government’s agenda. “This policy of the government of Israel is racist,” he said, adding that while Israel talks of expelling African immigrants, it at the same time imports immigrant workers from other places, such as Asia,” he said. Asaf Weitzen, a lawyer for the refugees and human rights activist, said that they are convinced that a deal, written or verbal, exists between Rwanda and Israel.   Rwanda has said its “doors remain open” to African immigrants in need of a home Juba feels it is being targeted for sanctions and cannot be treated equally with the rebels. Govt is targeting investment banks in Boston, Los Angeles, New York and Washington DC.