American jazz guitarist and singer Norman Brown is in Kenya for the fifth edition of the Safaricom Jazz International Festival taking place on February 25. Brown has released 10 albums over the past 26 years, most recently Let It Go last year. At the festival, he will be performing as part of the trio BWB — with saxophonist Kirk Whalum and trumpeter Rick Braun. This is Brown’s second visit to Kenya; he performed at the 2015 festival. In a recent interview, Brown spoke about his music and shared his thoughts about Kenya. -------------------------------------------- What attracted you to Kenya and Ghetto Classics in 2015? I love to teach. The Kenyan people are kind, friendly and enjoy my music deeply. What makes the collaboration between you, Kirk Whallum and Rick Braun successful? We compliment each other and inspire each other to reach deeper for ideas. What skills do you need to move between solo playing and working in a group? For solo playing there is more space for ideas, which allows greater freedom to express oneself. When collaborating, the expression has to be summarised. Tell us about you latest album Let It Go. Let It Go is a spiritual exposition into life’s challenges. The album explores the concept of sacrifice, the lesser for the greater. Will you be working with the children of Ghetto Classics? Yes, to provide a better understanding of the art of music. What can we expect from the BWB performance at the Jazz festival? A presentation of our Human Nature recording, as well as highlights from our solo recordings. All in all, an inspiring groovy experience. --------------------------------------- The Safaricom Jazz Festival is the brainchild of CEO Bob Collymore. Proceeds from the festival go to Ghetto Classics, a music education programme for children from low-income backgrounds. The programme was started by Kenyan classical musician Elizabeth Njoroge. Currently 1,200 children from Nairobi and Mombasa are enrolled in the programme.   Police fire live bullets and tear gas to scuttle anti-Kabila demo Marked contrast with publicity that accompanied 2014 $2.75b Eurobond.