The tech innovation fund that was expected to finance digital business projects and boost entrepreneurship has been delayed for about three years, which has limited sources of funding for local innovators. The $100 million fund, which could be the biggest in the Rwanda’s history, was first announced in 2015, but it is yet to be established, with officials attributing the delay on paperwork. It is difficult for tech start-ups to get funding especially from banks. Government officials say the highly anticipated ICT innovation fund is still oncourse despite the three-year delay. Speaking to Rwanda Today, Claudette Irere, director-general of Innovation and Business Development at the Ministry of Information Technology and Communication said the fund has not been shelved, but implementation has taken long because it involves a lot of money. Ms Irere said she hopes the fund will be made available this year. “We are still working on how the money will be used, who and how they will benefit,” she said. Financial constraints Many tech innovators and entrepreneurs cite lack of access to finance as a key stumbling block to the sector. Dioscore Shikama founder of Go Ltd a mobile apps development start-up said it is difficult for them to raise funds. He said there are no angel investors, who are the traditional mode for raising funds for tech start-ups. The fund was supposed to be operational in July 2016 and the then minister of Youth and ICT, Jean Philbert Nsengimana, told this paper that the fund would be established at the end of that year. Rwanda Today understands that some of the partners of the fund are banks. Top tech destinations Meanwhile, a recent tech funding report released by Disrupt Africa — pan African start-up portal — showed that Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa were top destinations for tech investors in 2017. Sean Ndiho, founder of Sobek Capital, a London-based alternative investment banking boutique said Rwanda and other markets in the continent lack the financing structures used by companies to raise funds. Mr Ndiho said funding options for companies are angel investors, venture capitals and stock markets. Related stories   Region optimistic about attracting investments from Africa’s second largest economy. Tigrayan party dominates the coalition but its nominee will not get support because of tension