I woke up with a jolt, soaked in sweat. I vaguely remembered a long, blurred nightmare, terrifying, but without any details. I felt depressed but only for a moment. I turned in my bed and was met by a pair of the whitest, small, earnest eyes staring as if at my soul. My heart made twists and turns that would have made a seasoned acrobat resentful. The owner of the afore mentioned eyes acknowledged my startled face with a wide toothless smile and a squeaky chuckle, supplemented with clenched twitching hands and kicking stubby legs. I sized up my challenger and adjusted myself against him albeit still in a lying position. His eyes were brown and he had a tiny stub for a nose between two chubby cheeks. He had curly, shiny black hair, sparse at the sides of his head but dense on top where I could make out a slight heaving up and down. He giggled and gurgled with more gusto and spittle splattered and some landed on my face. Opposing thoughts like those contrasting colours of a sliced water melon clashed against each other in my mind. There was the one part, the humane enthusiastic one I think, vouching for me to pick him up in my arms and the other part, the selfish lazy one, against it, insisting that he was okay by himself and my picking him up would be an intrusion of his space. I heeded none and instead propping up my head with one hand and extended a forefinger to his eager hand; he grasped it with his whole hand in a surprisingly tight grip. He held onto it crooning at what he had accomplished even as I made half-hearted attempts to free my imprisoned finger. Torrents of warm thick emotion coursed through my body. My eyes teared up, and I was glad that even if he noticed he would make nothing of it. That thought gave me solace and I made no attempt to dab at my eyes even though my sight was now a little foggy. I took in his sweet toddler smell as he, brows furrowed, concentrated on the task in his hand. And just as enthusiastically as he had grabbed it, he let go of my finger and turned his gaze and toothless gums on me as if daring me to another challenge. I tried to imagine what was going through his mind, but gave up the moment I saw his face starting to contort in the all familiar tell-tale grimaces that end up with him letting out heart rending howls that impossibly to came out of a body so small. I leaned forward and tickled his little bulging tummy; he changed his mind and rewarded me with laughter instead. Before he could recover, I got up from the crumpled sheets and slid out from my side of the bed, my feet greeting the cold floor with the usual slap of the morning. I cleared a path over baby shakers and spectators of stuffed animals under the scrutiny of his gaze that followed me with a puzzled looked on his face. I reached his side of the bed and towered over him, and his air peddling started again in earnest. I reached down for him, took him in my arms, turned around and sat on the bed with him on my lap. The next five minutes or so were spent with him in a much more comfortable space, with cradling and a gentle rocking thrown. He stared in gratitude at the giver of this comfort. I tried not to think of the inevitable, when all this calm would end and he would find me irksome. I wanted to tell him a story, and laughed at myself at the thought of it. He squirmed in my arms and chuckled too, at me or with me I had no idea. Maybe, just maybe, he understood more than I thought he did. Would he understand if I told him that with his tiny hands he had delivered a coup de grace to all my doubts in life, and for that I would forever be grateful to him? I hummed tunes that I imagined a child would resonate with — making faces were appropriate — to his insatiable merriment, which would give way to a frown admonishing me if I so much as stopped to take a breath. I had itch and an urge to scratch but I didn’t dare to move. I would just have to sit out the discomfort so as not to shift from our magical little world where the humming and childish gestures were the only order from this king of the land. Then after endless minutes of teasing and coaxing and walking around, as I had long ago given up on sitting when I could no longer withstand the itches, he gave a big yawn of satisfaction and his eyelids started to flutter. At last! My award winning theatrics became tender rocking as he resigned himself to the inevitable sleep with a peaceful gentle snore. I should have been relieved but I was not, and I found that odd and unsettling. I fought an urge to rattle him awake, but for the second time that morning I realised was scared stiff of his cries. I placed him on the bed with as much tenderness as I could muster, then back-pedalled slowly away fearing to breathe lest I rouse him. Then, a few blocks away from our flat, where the Haji Al Farouq Mosque stood, the mullah’s voice bellowed over the powerful speakers, calling for the faithful to unroll their rugs and bow their heads in prayer. Would my little one heed the mullah’s call and wake up? I braced myself for a yell, equal to if not mightier than the mullah’s bellow, the way a fisherman braces himself in the face of a giant wave coming his way. But it never came. His gentle snore did not miss a beat. I exhaled in gratitude as I made my way to the couch in the room and slumped on it. I reflected on our brief bonding session and savoured every moment while it was still fresh. Before the day’s hustle and bustle, this was the moment that I looked forward to replenish my hopes and spirit. In our locus, nothing else matters but him and I. We have the most implicit conversations, understanding each other without a single coherent word uttered between a father and his son.   In our locus, nothing else matters but him and I. We have the most implicit conversations. Alexander Fuller’s memoir is about growing up in pre-independence Zimbabwe. The 16 traders have been pushing for compensation for the past 10 years.