Nigerian police early Tuesday surrounded the houses of Senate President Bukola Saraki and his deputy Ike Ekweremadu over the investigations into the multiple robbery incidents on April 5. Thirty one people died in the robberies at Offa, Kwara State. Dr Saraki's media adviser, Mr Yusuph Olaniyonu, said the house of his principal had been blocked by the police. Mr Olaniyonu, in a WhatsApp post, also said the house of Mr Ekweremadu too had been surrounded by the Directorate of State Service (DSS) officers. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) publicity secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, corroborated the unusual security presence at Mr Ekweremadu’s house. Security operatives He tweeted: “Security operatives block Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu,’s residence in Apo, Abuja”. The security agents were yet to speak on why the actions were taken. Dr Saraki was on Monday invited by the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to report at 8am Tuesday at Guzape Police station to give a further statement on the Kwara State robberies. Some of the suspects arrested claimed Dr Saraki gave them money and guns as members of a group used by the politician to cow opponents. The police had on June 4 asked for Dr Saraki’s reaction to the statement made by some of the suspects in the deadliest robbery in the history of Nigeria. Dr Saraki wrote a statement dated June 7, which MrIdris ruled as inadequate. The attack Mr Idris noted that one suspect, in his confessional statement, said members of his group were political thugs allegedly working for Dr Saraki, the medic turned politician, and his Godson, Kwara State Governor, Mr Abdulfatah Ahmed. In view of that, Mr Idris disclosed, the police had decided to invite the Senate President for further clarification on the matter. Dr Saraki and Mr Ahmed have since denied any involvement in the attack or sponsoring any political thug.   Message from London unveiled as legislators resume business Blow to Buhari re-election bid as members defect to the opposition Uganda to sign $205 million in loan deals with India as Modi visits.