Kenya's reigning soccer champions Gor Mahia leapt to second position in Africa's Confederation Cup Group D after thrashing visiting Yanga of Tanzania 4-0 in Nairobi on Wednesday night. Algeria's USM Alger consolidated their position at the helm with a 2-1 against Rwanda's Rayon Sports 2-1. The Nairobi win puts Gor Mahia in a good position to qualify for the quarter-finals. It is the first time that Gor were competing in the group phase of Africa's second tier club competition. African Confederation Cup Group Fixtures: GROUP A: GROUP B: GROUP C: GROUP D: The latest results means USM have a lead of two points over Gor after the first three matches - with the Kenyan side a further three points ahead of Rayon with three games left to play. The top two teams in each pool go through to the quarter finals. In group C, Nigeria's Enyimba moved two points clear at the top of the pool thanks to a 1-0 win over Williamsville of Cote d'Ivoire. Their goalkeeper Ibrahim Mustapaha scored the winner in the 10th minute of the game. Djoliba of Mali are level with second placed Williamsville on four points each after a 2-0 win over Congo's CARA. In Group A, Asec Mimosas of Cote d'Ivoire had their goalkeeper Abdoul Kareem Cisse sent off midway through the second half of their clash with fellow former African champions Raja Casablanca. ASEC had to finish the rest of the game with 10 men and the resulting penalty was converted to give the Moroccan side the win. That puts them top of the pool by a point from Ghana's Aduana who had a fine 2-1 win over AS Vita Club from DR Congo. The competition Vita are level on points with Aduana but the Ghanaians edge in front of them in the pool because of the head-to-head rule. Group B is headed by another Moroccan side - Berkane - but without China-bound striker Ayoub El Kaabi they were held to a goalless draw at home by Egypt's Al Masry. And UD Songo of Mozambique secured their first point of the competition when they held veteran African side Al Hilal of Sudan 2-2 in Omdurman.   Caf takes measure to alleviate fixture-congestion Justice Jessie Lesiit said Ruth Wanjiku Kamande deliberately stabbed Farid Mohammed. Kenya hopes the technology can help achieve full Internet coverage of its population.