Nigerian opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has cobbled a loose alliance of about 30 political associations in readiness for the 2019 elections. The move is akin to what the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) did in 2014 ahead of the 2015 election, which it went on to win. The alliance that toppled the Goodluck Jonathan’s administration in 2015, was christened the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). The alliance of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), the Congress for Progressives Change (CPC) and the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP), dissolved themselves and fused into a mega party, APC, before they were joined by breakaway members of PDP (now called nPDP). Presidential aspirants However, some CUPP parties and associations have since signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the aim of defeating President Muhammadu Buhari’s APC at all electoral levels in 2019. That the new group was the brainchild of the PDP was not in doubt as the party summoned all its presidential aspirants, to a ‘crucial meeting’ at the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre in Abuja. PDP national chairman Prince Uche Secondus said that Nigerians were waiting for the coalition to rescue the country, urging the party leaders to drop their personal interests. “We must all agree that today we take our destiny in our hands to rescue Nigeria, not only for ourselves, but for the generations to come,’’ he said. Positive change Former vice-president Atiku Abubarkar said the MoU amongst the various opposition parties would herald positive change in the country. He described the MoU as a watershed moment towards the consolidation of democracy, politics of purpose and citizens-centred development in Nigeria. APC national chairman, a firebrand labour leader, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, assured party members and supporters not to lose sleep as the new alliance would soon crumble.   Relief as Buhari party's convention ends peacefully Rescued comes after an 18 day ordeal at a flooded cave. Addis pushes to end Asmara's isolation