Uganda's Constitutional Court delivers its ruling on the presidential age limit petition at the High Court in Mbale. UPDATE: Justice Cheborion Barishaki, one of the five Constitutional Court judges and the first to read his ruling, said the controversial raid of Parliament on September 27 by security operatives who evicted opposition lawmakers was necessary due to incidents that he termed life-threatening. “It is evidenced from exhibited proceeding in Hansard that the majority were in no mood to listen to the wise counsel of the minority, and were determined to have their way. I do not agree with the petitioners that the involvement of the army in Parliament was unjustified. There were life-threatening incidents in Parliament and therefore it was justified for the army to be called in to support the police,” he said. However, the judge added that the inhumane treatment of the Members of Parliament opposed to the amendment was unconstitutional. Police order faulted Mr Barishaki has further noted that Article 105 of the Constitution on presidential term tenure cannot be amended without a referendum. He faulted the police and particularly the Assistant Inspector General of Police Assuman Mugenyi for issuing an order that curtailed lawmakers from seeking the views of people outside the constituencies they represent. Judge Barishaki said the order was arbitrary and unconstitutional. Judge rules against parliament term extension On the extension of the term of parliament from five to seven years, judge Barishaki said there was no evidence that Ugandans had been consulted. He termed the move as "selfish" and "legal manoeuvres". He has ruled the amendment unlawful adding that effective public consultation cannot be waived in constitutional amendments. EARLIER: As Ugandans await the judgement on the consolidated petitions challenging the Constitution Amendment Act, attention has been drawn to the usually sleepy town of Mbale about 225km east of the capital Kampala and near the border with Kenya. The EastAfrican's reporter at the court says security has been beefed up and a fire truck has been placed at the front of High Court. The constitutional amendment last year removed age limits on the presidency and sought to extend the term of parliament and president by two years. The petitioners challenged the constitutionality of the Act passed last December amid drama that included a raid by security operatives who evicted mainly opposition MPs from parliament. Political analysts say the verdict, whichever way it goes, will be a test not just on the law but on the five judges of the Constitutional Court. Deputy Chief Justice, Alphonse Owiny Dollo is leading the five-judge bench of the Constitutional Court.   Verdict to be a test not just on the law but on the five judges of Uganda’s Constitutional Court. Commonwealth Office says fighting continuing despite ceasefire