Sierra Leoneans have taken to social media to vent their anger over alleged rapid erosion of civil liberties under President Julius Maada Bio. The protests were sparked by a statement from the police warning against criticism of the president and his policies. The Inspector General of Police, Mr Richard Moigbeh, said the police were "seriously" concerned about the manner in which critical state security issues were being discussed in the media. The passport A police statement lamented that some of the people who discussed the issues did so with little or no knowledge on them, thereby endangering public safety. “In as much as the people have the right to discuss issues, this should be done within the confines of the law, responsibly and factually,” the statement notes. It followed reports of an alleged failed attempt to arrest an opposition politician over the weekend for criticising the president. The Alliance Democratic Party leader, Mr Mohamed Kamarainba Mansaray, ws accused of making false statement over the alleged seizure of the passport of former President Ernest Bai Koroma.   Mr Mansaray had, in a radio interview, responded to the police order for all the Bai Koroma administration officials to surrender their passports. The police said the opposition politician misled the public by insinuating that Mr Koroma’s passport had been seized. Mr Mansaray denied the claim, saying he only warned against any plan to do so. The opposition politician was briefly questioned by the Criminal Investigations Department on Monday morning. Free speech On the same day, reports indicated the questioning of a former Sports minister by the Anti-Corruption Commission, and two other members of the former regime over separate suspected corruption offences. A week earlier, a civil society activist, Mr Edmund Abu, was arrested over a botched protest against the increase in fuel prices. He was questioned briefly by the CID. Critics say the police were using the notorious Public Order Act to stifle free speech and they blame President Bio for attacking his political opponents by proxy.   Ex-Vice President and former Mines minister to be charged with misuse of funds. Uganda to sign $205 million in loan deals with India as Modi visits. Market intermediaries have applied for cancellation of their permits.