The UK government, in partnership with the government of Kenya and the International Disability Alliance will host the Global Disability Summit on Tuesday July 24 in London. The Summit will focus on the inclusion, education and economic empowerment of people with disabilities worldwide, and seek to end the stigma that still prevents so many people from participating in their society and community. Disability inclusion remains a neglected and under-prioritised issue globally. The Global Summit, to be successful, must galvanise us all into action, to help ensure that the estimated one billion people across the world living with a disability are able to achieve their full potential. It has already had an impact. In recognition of our shared commitment, the UK and the government of Rwanda hosted the Rwanda Disability Summit in Kigali on June 26. The summit brought together an enormous range of stakeholders in Rwanda – from government and civil society to disabled people’s organisations, media, development partners and the private sector – and was broadcast by radio in every province across the country. It was a fantastic day, one that I hope will only be the beginning of a conversation, to ensure people with disabilities in Rwanda are able to fully contribute to the country’s future prosperity. Rwanda has already demonstrated the political that is crucial to making meaningful change in the lives of people with disabilities. I am sure that everyone present at the Kigali Summit felt the government’s enthusiasm to see this change realised. We look forward to that leadership being showcased on the global stage in London next week, and to result in tangible changes in the months and years to come. The UK is fully committed to partnering with and supporting Rwanda as it embarks on this journey. As it happens, 2018 also marks 10 years since Rwanda ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Now is the time for us all to end discrimination around the world. In the UK too, we are learning how to be more disability-inclusive. At the beginning of this month, the Speaker of our House of Commons, John Bercow, and the Secretary of State for International Development, Penny Mordaunt, were the first in the UK parliament’s history to use sign language from the Speaker’s chair and the despatch box respectively. The despatch box is the historical lectern reserved for ministers and shadow ministers when addressing parliament. The staff who are helping to host the London Summit have also been learning sign language for six weeks so that all delegates can feel included.These may seem like small steps, but they are important ones. As we work together here in Rwanda towards achieving the UN’s Global Sustainability Goals by 2030, and our shared commitment to Leave No One Behind, we must focus on ensuring people with disabilities are at the heart of everything we do. We cannot end poverty without reaching people with disabilities. Get things right for them, and we can get things right for all people. Sarah Metcalf is head of the UK’s Department for International Development (DfID) Rwanda   Blow to Buhari re-election bid as members defect to the opposition The outbreak began in the remote northwestern area of Bikoro on May 8.