Visiting French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday night visited Afrika Shrine, the popular jazz temple of musical icon Fela Anikulapo Kuti in Lagos. At the event tagged Celebrate African Culture, President Macron said: “Africa needs a new generation of Africans to share the new narrative about Africa all over the world.” The French leader, who was accompanied by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, urged Nigerian youths to get involved in politics to change the narrative of their nation. He had earlier in the day held bilateral talks with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja. President Macron pointed out that only Nigerians could change their image before the comity of nations. Place of strength The French leader described the Afrika Shrine as an iconic place of strength, music, culture and the late Fela Kuti as a politician who wanted a change for the society. “I am very happy to be here. Let me remind you that this place — shrine is a music place as well as politics which is needed to change the society. “So, I will say to the youths, politics is important, be involved,” he said. President Macron also announced the launch of the 2020 African Cultures Season in France. He said the event would help create a unique face for African culture in Europe. President Macron attributed his decision to visit the Afrika Shrine to his nostalgia for the good memories of the iconic place. Senior civil servant The Afrika Shrine is synonymous with marijuana smoke, raunchy backup dancers and protest music. The French President, who was a senior civil servant at the French Embassy in Lagos in 2004, seven years after Fela died, described the shrine as a cultural and iconic hub. He `confessed’ that he was not a stranger to the club, adding that he recognised it as an importance place for lovers of African culture. President Macron Macron expressed the readiness of French government to promote sport and cultural relations with Nigeria to address the unemployment among youths in both countries. President Buhari had on Monday received the 40-year-old French leader at the presidential villa in Abuja. The meeting was part of efforts to forge closer ties with English-speaking Africa. President Macron, a former investment banker who speaks fluent English, has made a point of boosting ties with France’s former colonies, but also improving trade with Anglophone countries.   Move likely to improve bilateral ties after two decades of tension. Top officers in Beijing for defence and security forum. The queuing system has not been used in Uganda in at least two decades.