Elders of the Mace, authored by renowned historian and culture activist Mutu wa Gethoi, was launched in Nairobi by Longhorn Publishers last week. The book took 20 years to complete. The story is set in Watuland, and is about Africans’ efforts to address issues affecting them through modern education, technology and traditional culture. At the launch, Mutu wa Gethoi said his experiences with colonialism inspired him to develop a thought-provoking novel that seeks to reel in African leaders to protect the continent’s rich heritage eroded by Western cultures. “I am passionate about Africa and the priceless heritage that has rapidly been phased out by Western traditions. My personal experiences with my father and the humiliation he suffered in colonial Kenya inspired the storyline in Elders of the Mace. “Africa’s immense wealth continues to be exploited by the West, yet they retire to our continent to explore our diverse cultures. “I urge the youth who travel abroad for further education to pick the best of that knowledge and invest it at home, and still appreciate where they come from. It is our responsibility as elders to preserve the best of our traditions by passing them on to our children,” he said. Longhorn chief operations officer Maxwell Wahome commended Mutu wa Gethoi saying that the author joins the higher order of elders who continue to inspire young writers. He added that the publishing industry continues to grow, breaking the myth of a poor reading culture among Kenyans. “The literary community which comprises writers, designers, cartoonists and artists among others is growing steadily, breaking the myth that Kenyans don’t read. On the contrary, more and more books are being converted to plays and other works of art,” said Mr Wahome. Mutu has published six biographies, including From Charcoal to Gold, about Njenga Karume and Kitchen Toto To Ambassador about Philip Gichuru.   Police said gunfire was continuing after the initial explosion. These heritage sites are increasingly threatened by infrastructure projects.