Onesmus Okamar is a young Kenyan artist with an optimistic outlook on life, which he expresses in his paintings. His abstract figurative oil on canvas paintings are characterised by bright, gentle colours filled with dreamy-faced people and circular or soft-edged patterns. His expressionism style reflects on positive emotions, or harmonious scenes from observations of everyday life. Often he paints in flowers, saying they symbolise love and happiness. Women also feature prominently, and Okamar says their beauty and grace enlightens his work. Sorting Out is a painting of a woman in a large head-wrap sorting through brightly coloured fabrics. Okamar says the painting is about sorting through one’s life and deciding what to keep or throw away even when we are burdened with thoughts that weigh us down. The large and vividly coloured painting titled The Pages of Life is of a woman with her arms crossed gazing pensively at another woman meditating and a man playing a guitar. The painting suggests taking time to reflect on life or desires, Okamor says. His work is easy to appreciate, both for his talent and the relatable social situations he depicts whether or not you know the story behind the piece. Although he projects positivity in his work, Okamar’s journey into professional art has not been an easy one. He cites challenges like “lack of proper information and acquisition of art materials, and getting your art recognised.” He did not study fine art but trained under artists Boniface Maina, David Thuku and Michael Musyoka. in addition, veteran artist Paul Elungat is his uncle. Through hard work and perseverance, 23-year old Okamar has established himself as an artist to be reckoned with. His works have sold locally and overseas, and in 2014 he won the painting category of the Mobile Arts School in Kenya prize, which is a Pan-African creativity competition for youth under 25. Okamar works out of Kobo Trust studios in Nairobi.   Airbus lost an order for six of the A330-800 by Hawaiian Airlines in March, in favour of Boeing Parties to bilateral treaty deem investment and tax policies in Dar to be anti-business.