When it comes to Indian restaurants in Nairobi, Haandi is one of the first places that comes to mind. This classic restaurant has been in the city since 1991. I first ate there about 20 years ago, so it is exciting to hear that the Haandi franchise is planning to open a fourth branch at the Westgate Mall, also in Westlands. Co-founder and managing director Pradeep Mullick said it will be a tandoor kitchen; they will cook in large, round clay ovens (tandoor) covered with copper exteriors. This technique, which can also be used bake bread, is widely used in the Middle-East, India and Central China. Mullick trained as a chef and worked at Sheraton and Taj hotels across the world, before coming to Kenya. I recently had lunch at the Haandi branch located in The Mall, Westlands. Since it’s opening 27 years ago, many other Indian eateries have appeared on the Kenyan food scene, but Haandi has retained its reputation of timeless dishes. The large dining room at Haandi has maintained its classic look with high-backed chairs. There were business customers and patrons of different nationalities. The ambience is relaxed making it ideal for families or groups. When the weather allows, you can have drinks and appetisers on the small balcony. You can watch the chefs preparing your meal through the large kitchen windows. To drink, I usually order a lassi, an Indian yoghurt beverage flavoured with sweet spices or fruits. This time I had the pineapple-mint juice, which was refreshing. Haandi has an extensive menu of mostly North Indian cuisine, with options of vegetarian and non-vegetarian food cooked in rich sauces. As a starter, I prefer vegetarian options like roasted papadums with chilli sauce or the lentil and veggie kebabs with pickles and yoghurt. I recommend the barbequed paneer cheese with peppers and onions. There is an interesting appetiser called Lemon Pepper Mogo, which is crispy Uganda cassava sticks served with a fruit chutney. For the main course, I had the boneless Chicken Tikka Masala, prepared in a thick coriander and masala sauce. It came with fluffy basmati rice, buttered naan and a side salad of sliced vegetables drizzled with lemon.   The Murgh Makhani, commonly known as Butter Chicken, is also delectable and Haandi prepares it based on an old recipe from Delhi, where it originated. The mild, buttery tomato-rich gravy makes this a good option for people with a low spice tolerance. The menu also has fish, prawns and other seafood items, but no beef. For accompaniments you are spoilt for choice with six types of rice and biryani dishes, and 16 types of oven-baked or fried bread such as naan, roti, paratha and kulcha. The main courses are priced between Ksh1,200 ($12) and Ksh2,400 ($24). Dessert is a selection of classic Indian sweets such as the Gajar Halwa carrot pudding or Rasmalai, a cheese pudding soaked in sweetened milk. Alternatively, you can wind up your meal with fresh sliced fruit or ice cream, served in various flavours.   Airbus lost an order for six of the A330-800 by Hawaiian Airlines in March, in favour of Boeing Parties to bilateral treaty deem investment and tax policies in Dar to be anti-business.