Nigeria’s ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has suffered a major setback following the emergence of a splinter group calling itself Reformed APC (R-APC). The former secretary of President Muhammadu Buhari’s defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Mr Buba Galadima, was introduced as the national chairman of the splinter group. Mr Galadima said at a briefing in Abuja on Wednesday that R-APC includes all the progressive forces in the APC, without mentioning the names. A major political player and the chairman of the New Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) that had joined APC in 2014, Mr Kawu Baraje, attended the briefing. Mr Baraje had on Sunday in Ilorin said that nPDP would make its stand known this week. The leading lights His presence at the rebels’ camp may therefore be taken that R-APC and nPDP were one and the same. Mr Galadima, who had expressed frustrations very early in the life of the APC government, claimed that members of R-APC included most of the leading lights in the defunct nPDP, CPC, the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP), the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and others. He recalled that in the build up to the 2015 General Election, some political parties and groups came together and formed a brand called APC. He said Nigerians, however, entrusted power to APC based on its promises and potentials. “We are sad to report that after more than three years of governance, our hopes have been betrayed, our expectations completely dashed. Failed to deliver “The APC has run a rudderless, inept and incompetent government that has failed to deliver good governance to the Nigerian people,'' he said. Mr Galadima claimed that President Buhari’s ruling party ran into troubled waters because of the national convention held recently. The convention, he went on, was intensely disputed as it was conducted with impunity, total disregard for due process, disregard for the party constitution and naked display of power and practices that had no place in the party. “There are countless cases in courts all over the country challenging the legality of congresses and even the National Convention itself. “It is very likely that the judicial decisions on these cases will result in massive chaos, confusion and uncertainties," said Mr Galadima. Any election He further claimed that the chairman of the organising committee of the convention, Jigawa State Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, declared 18 seats unopposed “since only one valid candidate stood at the end of the grossly manipulated nomination exercise for each of the offices’’. R-APC reportedly has officers in all the wards, 774 Local Governments, and all the 36 States of the Federation. Mr Galadima promised to deliver 75 per cent of the votes that President Buhari could garner in any election.   Relief as Buhari party's convention ends peacefully It's expected to handle trade worth $7 billion within two years and create 15,000 jobs.