President of Médecins sans Frontières Belgium spoke to Fred Oluoch on the state of health in South Sudan. ----------------------------------------- To what extent is insecurity impeding the operations of MSF in South Sudan? Violence is widespread and has significantly affected our operations. The armed groups even attack health facilities which are protected by international humanitarian law. Health facilities should be spared from attacks because any injured person is entitled to healthcare, but the armed groups do not follow the rules. Insecurity is a big threat for healthcare workers and has prohibited us from working in certain areas but we strive to reach to the needy wherever they are. Sometimes it becomes too dangerous and we are forced to withdraw, but we still leave some medicine behind. But we have never left South Sudan in the past 35 years. Does MSF reach a sufficient number of those in need of treatment? With millions displaced, women and children suffer a lot. Men hide in protection facilities to avoid being conscripted by militias while women face rape given that sexual violence is used as a legitimate weapon of war by the combatants. MSF has 16 projects in South Sudan, including major hospitals, some with a 160-bed capacity, to doctors travelling with backpacks to reach those in the villages in need of primary healthcare, and even mobile clinics using boats. We also offer surgeries, caesarean sections, trauma care and including malnourished children. Last year, we completed a million consultations and treatments, which is a lot. We hospitalised 42,000 people, of whom 70,000 were children, and per formed 6,000 surgical interventions, delivered 10,000 babies and attended to more than 224,000 malaria cases. Is MSF making a difference considering the huge population needing medical services? We have made a difference for individuals, especially regarding the over 220,000 malaria cases per year. We have had enormous impact on the lives of people and will continue to be there even if the civil war ends because health services are poor. We will work with the government to see where we can help considering we employ 3,500 local and 300 international staff. Where does MSF get its financing? We are funded by private donors from all over the world, while about three to four per cent of our budget is met by a few governments like Canada and Japan. Some individuals donate as much as $10 per month but also wealthy people make substantial donations. We also conduct fundraising because we always need money to cater for both old and new situations. Could MSF withdraw from South Sudan because of insecurity? We cannot withdraw completely, but sometimes we suspend operations until things cool down. The warring parties should respect the medical facilities and let medical staff get on with their work. We withdrew from Somalia because of the threat of terrorism. We also withdrew from Rwanda, which is a small country and where the government proved that it can take care of the healthcare needs of its citizens. In general, the people of South Sudan appreciate what we do because they are used to humanitarian agencies. They welcome our support and sometimes even believe we can offer protection against the violence. But in the recent past, it has become increasingly difficult for medical staff in South Sudan to provide lifesaving assistance because of the many militia groups. Over 50 medical facilities have been attacked and healthcare providers robbed, medical facilities looted, damaged or destroyed. The MSF regional office based in Nairobi runs operations in neighbouring countries such as South Sudan, Sudan, Ethiopia and Somalia, with co-ordination from Europe headquarters. The organisation spends $95 million annually on South Sudan, the biggest operation after the Democratic Republic of Congo.   Anger in Upper Nile over claims of discrimination in employment Commonwealth Office says fighting continuing despite ceasefire Uganda's Constitutional Court to deliver judgment on presidential age limit petition.