Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa has revealed that there was a plot by members of his own party to impeach him if he wins the July 31 election. President Mnangagwa, who got into power in November last year after the military forced long time ruler Robert Mugabe to step down, warned the ruling Zanu-PF’s aspiring MPs that he would deal ruthlessly with any rebellion. “I get intelligence that some of those who have won primary elections have two minds,” the Zanu-PF leader told a workshop organised to reconcile party members that contested internal elections ahead of the parliamentary polls. “They have joined the Zanu-PF wagon using various tricks, money included, to be elected with a possible view that once elected into parliament they will come together and move a motion of impeachment.” President Mnangagwa said Zanu-PF would sack any MPs who rebelled against its leadership. Must be fulfilled “There are two things I would want those among you to know would happen,” he warned. “First, you must realise that the constitution provides the basis of impeachment and such basis must be fulfilled before impeachment proceedings begin. “Secondly, our constitution provides an instrument to chuck out from parliament any member whom we think is not Zanu-PF anymore. “So you, deep down, with your angel or ancestors you must know where you stand.” Zanu-PF held chaotic primary elections early this month to choose aspiring MPs and local government representatives. The polls were marred by claims of rigging and imposition of candidates by a faction loyal to the military. The resignation Mr Mugabe, who had ruled Zimbabwe since independence from Britain in 1980, resigned in November last year as ruling party MPs joined hands with the opposition to impeach him after he was put under house arrest by the military. Zanu-PF argued the 94-year-old politician had violated the constitution by allowing his 52-year-old wife to make key decisions that affected the running of the country. The impeachment process was abandoned following the resignation. President Mnangagwa, who had fled to South Africa after he was sacked as vice-president by the man he used to refer as ‘my father’, returned home to take over power with the help of the military. On Wednesday, he announced that Zimbabwe would hold a General Elections on July 31 to choose a substantive leader and a new parliament.   Zimbabweans to elect president and members of parliament. United States wants warring sides given until June 30 to end fighting or face sanctions. South Sudan says action will undermine peace and humanitarian operations