On Saturday, the National Police Service placed a total of Ksh2.5 million ($25,000) bounty on the five suspects. The police in Kenya on Tuesday arrested a lawmaker, who represents the country in the regional East African Legislative Assembly (Eala), over recent attacks on a Nairobi businessman. MP Simon Mbugua was grilled over the assault on ex-Nairobi business official Timothy Muriuki at the Central Police Station in Nairobi's city centre. The station's police boss Mr Robinson Mboloi said officers were in the early stages of their investigations. Violence Five men were captured on camera roughing up Mr Muriuki before they ejected him out of a city hotel last week. The attackers claimed Mr Muriuki, in the aborted press conference, was about to tarnish Nairobi County Governor Mike Sonko’s name and they could not allow him to address journalists. They grabbed Mr Muriuki and forcefully led him out of Hotel Boulevard as he pleaded with them to let him finish reading his statement. They would hear none of this and at some point in the scuffle, they argued between themselves on whether to throw Mr Muriuki into the hotel’s swimming pool. Mr Muriuki was thrown out of the hotel premises where other men on motorcycles formed a circle round him and started shoving and beating him. They even pushed him into a puddle of dirty water on the pavement. On Saturday, the National Police Service placed a Ksh2.5 million ($25,000) bounty on the five suspects. Police said the suspects had gone into hiding and asked the public to share information that could lead to their arrest. Street names An investigation by the Nation established that the five suspects are popularly known as Swaleh, Suleiman Manyange, Mike Mbanya and Bonny. Some Nairobi County insiders linked the men to Mr Mbugua. But he denied any involvement. “As everybody has rightfully described them, they are goons,” he said of the five men. “Goons are goons, they can be hired by anybody. I used to hang around City Hall [Nairobi County headquarters] when I was jobless, but I left for Eala,” he added. Mr Sonko, Mr Mbugua added, is his friend. “There is no way I can send people to attack anyone supporting him.”   They were declared elected after more than six hours of voting and tallying in both Houses. Health official reports outbreak in the northwestern town of Bikoro.