Uganda has been issuing national identities for barely a year, and it already has a Kenyan problem — in registration offices all over the country uncollected cards have already piled high. The national ID issuance got off to a very lousy start nearly two years ago. There was only a rush last year when the government decided that all mobile phone Simcards that hadn’t been registered with the new IDs would be disconnected from the network. There was a stampede. Not even the possibility of not being able to vote without a national ID had moved the public, until their mobile phone, that most precious item of this age, was threatened. However, despite the frantic scenes seen during ID registration, very many people have not bothered to show up to pick them. The pile of uncollected IDs in Kenya and Uganda is a crude indicator of how many people still live “off the grid,” in the informal and peasant economy, and can get by successfully without engaging the state for a service that requires an ID. The rise of the mobile phone in Africa, and the growth of the digital universe has, also, ironically, made this “off grid” existence easier. Because one can get several Simcards with their ID (up to 10 in Uganda), what is happening is that individuals are getting several numbers and distributing them to friends and family. Digital chieftains Uganda, according to technology analysts tracking the trends, is becoming a country littered with several “small digital chieftains.” Usually, these are the more educated and economically successful relatives in the towns and cities. A Simcard registration introduced for security reasons, is undermining the democratic possibilities of the mobile phone and creating an elite that controls relatives’ access to Simcards. In Uganda’s case, journalists also allege that the new requirements have led to something more sinister – a new corruption market. In countries where corruption is rampant, the smaller officials down the food chain seek system failure, because it creates new opportunities for extortion. There are allegations that rogue ID officials might not issue you with your card, even though it is available, to force you to pay a bribe so that it can be expedited. And if you need an ID to get a trading licence at your local market, or to pick up your little pension, and you don’t have one, it doesn’t mean you will be chased away. You will get both services, but this time for a higher bribe because you don’t have an ID. Above all, even for governments that are gung-ho about national IDs, there arrives a point once every five or so years, when it becomes a threat to their power. If you want to steal an election, national IDs get in the way. To flood the voter roll with ghosts, you need a situation where people can get registered without a robust national ID. And, particularly, on voting day, you need to get your ghosts in to vote. If you stick religiously to the ID, you won’t be able to, and could lose an election. As a result, countries with highly competitive or emotionally charged elections, either don’t have a national ID; or if they do it’s sloppy; and where it’s effective, you have piles of uncollected cards. Charles Onyango-Obbo is publisher of data visualiser Africapaedia and Rogue Chiefs. Twitter@cobbo3   United Nations secretary-general shortlists Nairobi to host the UN Regional Service Centre in Security Council warns as it discusses Juba