Authorities in the Kingdom of Eswatini (former Swaziland) are blaming the rampant rape of women for fuelling the spread of HIV/Aids infection. According to the Times of Swaziland, at least61 women were raped in the kingdom every month. The paper on Thursday quoted the National Commissioner of Police, Mr Isaac Magagula, as making the announcement at Nkhaba Inkhundla, during a Crime Awareness Campaign. “There were 1, 046 rape cases reported in 17 months, from January 2017 up until May this year,” Mr Magagula was quoted as saying, adding that the most harrowing were the cases of children and elderly women being subjected to the horror. Biological fathers “Also mindboggling are cases where biological fathers rape their own daughters, which is incomprehensible, to say the least,” Mr Magagula said. According the government official, gender-based violence that manifests mainly through rapes and intimate partner killings (passion killings), were another persistent challenge in the country’s overall crime landscape. Eswatini has the world's highest estimated prevalence rate of HIV/Aids-infected adults, at about 26 per cent of people aged 15-49. HIV/Aids in Eswatini was first reported in 1986 but has since reached epidemic proportions due, in large part, to cultural beliefs which discourage safe-sex practices. His father The kingdom has a population of 1.2 million with a life expectancy of just 31.88 years, the lowest documented in the world and less than half the world average. The tiny African state, landlocked between South Africa and Mozambique, is one of the world’s few absolute monarchs. King Mswati, 50, who succeeded his father King Sobhuza II in 1986 aged 18, rules by decree. He has often used eSwatini in previous official speeches, and lawmakers considered the kingdom's name change in 2015.   King Mswati announced the name change to mark 50 years of independence. United States wants warring sides given until June 30 to end fighting or face sanctions. South Sudan says action will undermine peace and humanitarian operations