After more than a decade working in different organisations in civil society, Purity Kagwiria’s passion for women in the fields of education and leadership is apparent. Since all her previous work involved advocacy especially in women empowerment, it was natural for her to move to AkiliDada in 2011 as a programme co-ordinator. The organisation’s main programme then was identifying and awarding scholarships to needy female students. Kagwiria grew up as a needy student who often needed and got help from well wishers to get through school. Since she understood what this help meant in her life, she decided to grow AkiliDada to incorporate other programmes offering interventions in the lives of girls and young women. Today, AkiliDada runs programmes on mentorship, leadership training, social enterprise, innovation, feminist movement building, policy and research. It is nurturing a generation of young African women leaders, and operates in East Africa. AkiliDada has also placed hundreds of girls in universities around the world. “We are very keen on cultivating relationships with universities, so that all these girls get global perspectives." Mentorship is central to AkiliDada’s work and the organisation’s staff have adopted a centre for delinquent girls in Nairobi as their personal corporate social responsibility project, using their personal funds and time. Kagwiria and AkiliDada staff are the big sisters many forgotten girls have never had. ------------------------------------------ What’s your off-duty passion? Gardening. I grow my own spinach, sukuma wiki (kale) and butternut. Ideally, I want to be able to grow my own fruits and vegetables so that I eat what I grow. If you hadn’t turned into who you are today, what would you be? I think I would have been a journalist or a marketer. I feel I could have done well in journalism because I’m inquisitive and approachable. People tell me all manner of things without me asking. What signifies your personal style? Eclectic. I like quirky things. I’m also very Afrocentric and very keen on locally made stuff. How do you manage your wardrobe? I don’t. I am a very fashion attuned person. I don’t have a mirror so I don’t really look at what I look like. I just wear what I feel like. I base my clothes on how comfortable they feel when I wear them. And I seem to pick the right things to wear. I’m not big on hair so I don’t have bad hair days. When in East Africa, where are you most likely to be whiling away your time on a Saturday afternoon? My weekends are spent exploring restaurants. My family is very keen on food. I’ve recently taken up jogging so I go to Karura Forest for a good run. Describe your best destination in East Africa? Lamu, in the North Coast of Kenya. I love it with all my heart. Until when the Mpeketoni terrorist attacks happened in 2014, we used to drive there every year. The people are friendly, the ocean is amazing and the beach is clean. Anywhere on your must-visit list? I want to go to Italy, in particular to Rome. Because the country has a rich history and amazing architecture, I think everything I studied in history class would come alive. And of course there is the food too. What do you see as East Africa’s greatest strength? I would say the youth and the fact that we now have a generation that doesn’t see borders. We own our cultures and celebrate them. It is already happening locally with fashion. East Africa also has the most educated generation this side of the world has seen. This is a big strength that we can use to revolutionise the region. What’s your favourite collection? Books. I am very keen on buying and having them autographed by the authors. I see them as a thing I’ll pass on to my son. I also have money from all the countries I have visited. What’s the most thoughtful gift you’ve received? I got a Kindle, and a Fitbit for tracking my exercise from my husband Tony. He always buys me gifts aligned with my interests. He’s generally great at getting gifts. What’s the best gift you’ve given? The gifts I give are things I want for myself. Most of my gifts are also well thought out, they are not haphazard. Your last great read? I’m currently reading Reverend Timothy Njoya’s autobiography. I admire him because despite the passage of time he’s still active and very much out there commenting on Kenyan politics, religion and culture. The book has a really good history of Kenya, and the history of multiparty democracy. I admire him as a clergyman who managed to merge his faith with his work for the good of society. Which movie had an impact on you? Recently, I would say Black Panther. For once, there was a big celebration of African and its potential. There’s celebration in line with what we factually know of it as the continent with the most growth and potential. Black Panther helps Africans see value in ourselves and eggs us on to exploit it for ourselves. Also there is a lot of women power in it, which is directly related to my work; that women can and should lead from the front. What’s your favourite music? I have no single genre. I like hip-hop, especially the Kenyan version. I like Juliani, Muthoni Drummer Queen, Ukoo Flaani and A Star. They are not afraid of telling the truth about the state of the nation. I enjoy listening to gospel hip-hop artistes who talk about social justice. I like Beyonce pop music because she’s hard working, unstoppable, irrepressible and a powerful persona. I also listen to mellow music like that of Alicia Keys, John Legend, Angelique Kidjo, Mafikizolo, Freshly Ground and Liquideep. Your favourite website? Medium.com. It has so much information and news and is an easy read. You always learn something from it. What’s a constant in your fridge? Now that I have a child, yoghurt and fresh milk.   The new tax measure is likely to force some investors to stagger their acquisition deals. The mobile-based Treasury instrument only managed a quarter of the $10m expected.