The price of maize in the region dropped in the first quarter of this year, attributed to ample domestic availability and the lifting of an export ban by Tanzania. Data from the East Africa Grain Council shows that the prices of maize, sorghum and rice in the East African Community and the Horn states of Ethiopia and Djibouti went down due to bountiful harvests. Its bulletin, East Africa Cross-border Trade, shows that in January, the price of maize in Tanzania was $198 per tonne; $180 in Uganda and $417 in Rwanda. At the end of the quarter, the price had dropped to $174 in Tanzania; $177 in Uganda and $319 in Rwanda. However, in Tanzania and Rwanda, the price of sorghum increased significantly, with a tonne fetching $979 in Tanzania in March, from $202 in January. In Rwanda, it rose from $489 to $614 at the close of the quarter. But Uganda recorded a massive decline, from $500 to $163 per tonne. The price of sorghum in Somalia, Sudan and Ethiopia was stable from the harvests given demand by humanitarian assistance. These pastoralist markets usually receive humanitarian assistance and vouchers for other food items such as rice and wheat flour. They also have run a productive safety net programme. Exports of sorghum from Uganda declined after increased domestic demand for human consumption and brewing of beer. According to the trade tracker, Uganda and Tanzania were the main exporters in the region while South Sudan, Rwanda and Kenya were the main importers. Dar ban on maize After Tanzania lifted ban on maize exports in the second quarter of 2017, the grain’s prices there declined instead of remaining stable or increasing marginally. The report attributes this to a bumper harvest. In Uganda, maize prices dropped in February and March because of increased supply from the above-average November-December 2017 harvest. Kenya, which was a major market for the region’s maize exporters, saw shortage ease due to increased imports from Uganda and Tanzania, leading to a drop in prices. Between July 2017 and March this year, Nairobi imported 400,166 tonnes of maize from the region, with Uganda accounting for 54 per cent of the total exports while Dar contributed 41 per cent. The price of maize flour dropped after rallying to a high of Ksh115 ($1.15) for a two-kilo packet in January, after the government subsidy scheme that helped to lower the cost from a high of Ksh153 ($1.53) last year came to an end. The price of the 2kg packet has dropped to around Ksh90 ($0.9), the subsidy price of last year. Trend The EAGC bulletin shows that exports from Tanzania to Kenya have been on an upward trend, despite the continuing trade spats between the two countries. In the past one year, maize exported from Tanzania to Kenya increased by 1,302 per cent to 76,723 tonnes while the volume of maize exports to Burundi from Tanzania increased by 1,041 per cent to 1,254 tonnes. Tanzanian rice exports to Kenya increased by 16 per cent to 22,792 tonnes and those to Burundi by 130 per cent, to 1,658 tonnes. The EAGC bulletin says that most of the rice from Somalia consisted of imports that are re-exported to Kenya and Ethiopia. The relatively higher prices in Kenya were the main driver for the increased regional trade.   The documents involved, codes and jargon are a minefield. Kinshasa suspects closed-door dealings on the crisis-riddled country's future. UK and Dutch lawmakers question Rwanda-Arsenal sponsorship agreement