The recent conference on corruption held - quite appropriately - in Abuja, Nigeria, the corruption capital of the world, would seem to suggest that Africa is finally taking corruption seriously. Since Independence, Africa has been in denial, refusing to link its underdevelopment to the loss of billions of dollars through corruption. The continent’s underdevelopment was attributed by some to colonialism, a view best articulated by Walter Rodney in his book, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa. Alternatively, underdevelopment was attributed to harsh weather conditions. Also, quite often, we attributed our underdevelopment to mystical forces. Thus the prevalence in our countries of the absurd spectacle of so-called prayer warriors – among whom are government officials linked to corruption - trooping to sessions convened to plead with God to spare us this or that misfortune, including corruption. We even see these gatherings exorcising demons from accident-prone spots on our roads. They shout feverishly: “Shetani ashindwe!” (May the devil fail in his designs!), sprinkling all manner of “holy” liquids on the accursed section of the road. The idea that what should be exorcised from the nation are the demons dressed in designer suits who own mansions in various parts of the country as a result of “hard work, diligence and special favour from the Lord” is lost on these prayerful crowds. And just in case the Lord fails to hear this pleading from the faithful, councils of elders organise parallel prayers to their gods. They slaughter goats and cows and camels, and as the smoke from the offerings swirls towards the skies, they utter incantations, brandishing all manner of “holy” objects. After this hard work of exorcising demons and pleading with the gods to intervene against famine, poverty and other misfortunes, the elders, dressed in awe-inspiring or, depending on your viewpoint, ridiculous animal-skin garments, and headgear that, quite frankly, is more wacky than holy, devour the roast meat, having made sure that the ceremony is not desecrated by the presence of women and children. The nation, thus cleansed from evil through evangelical and traditional religious rites and prayers, prepares to forge ahead with renewed hope. Unabated But of course accidents continue claiming lives. Corruption continues unabated. Famine kills hundreds whenever it strikes. No matter the annual National Prayer Meetings in Kenya, the National Youth Service recently lost Ksh9 billion ($90 million) to cartels comprised of government officials and well-connected “tenderpreneurs.” The sacrificing of goats did not stop the Kenya Forest Service from auctioning off our country’s “lungs.” No matter how fervent our prayers in churches and mosques, public officials continued to be somnolent while on duty. Despite the serial laying on of hands on our leaders, they continued to be negligent and self-indulgent, often declaring positions they hold by dint of a political process to be theirs by holy edict. Despite their proclaiming ourselves to be a God-fearing nation, millions continue to wallow in poverty. The Abuja conference on corruption is perhaps an indication of our finally accepting that we will only change our fortunes through building of governance systems and institutions and putting conscientious women and men in charge of them. The policies must include severe sanctions for any dereliction of duty, including stealing or abetting theft of public money. Hopefully, the Abuja conference will be followed by other conferences in alternative corruption capitals of the world like Kenya, South Africa, the DRC or Equatorial Guinea, culminating in a major conference at the African Union headquarters. At these conferences, ways of defeating the vice would be worked out, multilateral protocols to stop laundering of corruption money agreed, policies to help expedite repatriation of corruption billions still stashed in Europe formulated, and procedures for extradition from AU countries and Europe of criminals wanted for corruption streamlined, etc. But above all these measures, we must induce, by any means, a cultural shift. This is because only a strong anti-corruption culture will support whatever anti-corruption systems and measures we devise. This new cultural attitude will ensure the political and social ostracism of people linked to theft of public money. As it is, our culture glorifies them, and consequently we elect them to positions of leadership. For instance, where else but in Kenya (and Africa by extension) would all the leading candidates for president in 2022 be plausibly linked to theft of public money or property? Therefore, I say to our dear evangelicals and traditional soothsayers, the Devil wears Prada. Tee Ngugi is a Nairobi-based political commentator.   Miraya Radio reporters ordered to keep off government functions It's nearly impossible to cancel a mobile money transaction made in error.