South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa has given greenlight to the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) to probe the alleged abuse of public funds for the funeral of Nelson Mandela. President Ramaphosa has ordered SIU to investigate the Eastern Cape Treasury Department‚ the Eastern Cape department of safety and liaison‚ the Eastern Cape Development Corporation‚ the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency‚ Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality‚ King Sabata Dalindyebo Local Municipality‚ OR Tambo District Municipality and the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality. SIU will investigate maladministration in the Eastern Cape Treasury and the provincial development agency in relation to the allocation of funds that were used for the funeral. The state’s trusted forensic investigation and litigation agency is also checking for any unrelated irregular and wasteful expenditure. Serious irregularities In a statement‚ the Presidency said the South African leader authorised SIU to investigate allegations of “serious irregularities in relation to procurement of goods and/or services in a manner that was not fair‚ competitive‚ transparent‚ equitable or cost-effective contrary to applicable legal framework”. The South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) said the directive was a step in the right direction in uncovering corruption. “Our view is that municipalities have for a long time been left to be breeding grounds for corrupt activities with no consequences for those involved while on the other hand hampering service delivery and disadvantaging citizens‚” Samwu said in a statement. Irregularly transferred President Ramaphosa's directive comes after the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane released a report on an investigation into allegations of misappropriation of funds in preparations for the funeral in December 2013. The Public Protector found that the development agency had improperly diverted $24 million of public funds to use for the funeral. The Public Protector also found that provincial treasury irregularly transferred $20,000 into the personal bank account of Premier Phumulo Masualle‚ who headed the provincial planning and treasury in 2013. Ms Mkhwebane requested the Finance minister to appeal to the president to issue a proclamation to investigate the unlawful appropriation or expenditure of public money.   Zuma's shadow is looming large over the Ramaphosa era. Kinshasa suspects closed-door dealings on the crisis-riddled country's future. UK and Dutch lawmakers question Rwanda-Arsenal sponsorship agreement