In one of those typical African political events where the results of a contest are known well before they take place, Burundi’s President Pierre Nkurunziza last week won his referendum to extend his stay in office with over 70 per cent of the vote. Nkurunziza now has the opportunity to remain president until 2034. Next door in Rwanda, a referendum in 2015 changed the play on term limits. If his spirit is willing and his body able, President Paul Kagame too could potentially be in office until 2034. In Uganda, which beat everyone to the punch in lifting term limits in 2005, and recently removed the age limit too to enable President Yoweri Museveni to keep holding elections so he can win them, a referendum to return term limits but elongate each to seven years, is on the cards. So, if all goes according to plan, even the ageing Museveni could remain in office until somewhere between 2034 and 2035. We won’t talk democracy, and will only wonder if East African leaders have seen a special significance in the year 2034. Well, for starters, the population of the East African Community will be huge. If they stop the fighting and killing, there will still be about 20 million South Sudanese around. There will be nearly 90 million Tanzanians, 74 million Kenyans, 70 million Ugandans, 20 million Rwandans, and 18 million Burundians. EAC leaders will have a massive market to bargain with. And Museveni will have seen the number of subjects he rules over quadruple in the 48 years he would have been in power by that point. Between the time Kagame was vice president, and later president, he will have seen the population of Rwanda more than double. In many ways, there will really be no leader of a “small” East African country by 2035. What else? I think by then we will have a single giant “urban loop” connecting East African cities. In other words, the corridor will run from Mombasa to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, back into Tanzania to Kenya. Up to 60 per cent of East Africans could be living along that corridor, and perhaps 200 kilometres off this corridor, could be forlorn lands, ravaged by oil spills, climate change, and other abuses undertaken to feed and supply “The Corridor.” Somalia will be part of the East African Community in some form and the country will be reasonably peaceful; Ethiopia too will probably be a member of the bloc. With a population of nearly 154 million, it will have an elephantine economy, a regional hegemon totally eclipsing the rest. The bulking up of the foreign military bases in Djibouti, the Somalia and Sudan will continue, and the Indian Ocean coastline will probably be the most militarised in the world. Lake Victoria will be under a lot of stress, and given the way things are going, a small bit of it could be the most precious patch of water in the region. We are likely to see a clash over Lake Victoria even before Ethiopia and Egypt go to war over the Nile. Of course, we could be totally wrong about all this. Without doubt, though, if you are an East African leader in 2034/2035, you will be quite consequential. Charles Onyango-Obbo is publisher of data visualiser Africapaedia and Rogue Chiefs. Twitter@cobbo3   Kinshasa suspects closed-door dealings on the crisis-riddled country's future. UK and Dutch lawmakers question Rwanda-Arsenal sponsorship agreement