Cameroon's Indomitable Lions' interim head coach Alexandre Belinga has named a 23-man squad for a friendly against Burkina Faso in Paris, on Sunday. Those called up include first timer Kunde Malong, a central midfielder who plays for Spanish club Granada CF on loan from Atletico Madrid. The remarkable comebacks include Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) 2017 winning defender Oyongo Bitolo, who has not been with the team since suffering an injury in June last year. Bitolo was a key player for the Indomitable Lions Afcon triumph in Gabon, starting every one of Cameroon’s matches en route to their fifth continental success. Like Bitolo, FC Nuremberg-Germany winger Edgar Salli is also making a comeback to the Lions’ den after a long while. RELATED CONTENT: Old Cameroon lions return to the den Attacker Eric-Maxim Choupo Moting and midfielder Bassogog Christian, who were part of the squad that overpowered Kuwait 3-1 in a friendly in March, are not on the list. The squad: Goalkeepers: Ondoa Fabrice (Sevilla-Spain), Onana Andre (Ajax-Holland), Kameni Carlos (Fenerbahçe-Turkey). Defenders: Fai Colins (Standard de Liège- Belgium), Oyongo Bitolo Ambroise (FC Montpellier-France), Ngah Fabrice (Jadidi DifaHassani-Morocco), Kana Biyick Jean Armel (Kayserispor-Turkey), Teikeu Adolphe (FC Sochaux-France), Yaya Banana (Panionios-Greece), Leuko Serges (Deportivo Lugo-Spain) Midfielders: Zambo Anguissa (Olympique Marseille France), Siani Sebastien (FC Anwerp-Belgium), Nyom Allan (West Bromwich Albion FC England), Kunde Malong Pierre (Granada-Spain), Salli Edgar (Nuremberg-Germany), Njie Clinton (Olympique Marseille-France), Moukandjo Benjamin (FC Jiangsu Suning-China). Attackers: Olinga Fabrice (FC Moucron-Belgium), Aboubakar Vincent (FC Porto-Portugal), Bahoken Stéphane (R. Strasbourg-France), Tagueu Joel (Maritimo-Portugal), Toko Ekambi Karl (FC Angers-France), Tawamba Leandre (Partizan Belgrade Serbia)   Electoral agency says 73pc voted "Yes" in the referendum. Decline in commodity prices and political instability weakened economies in the past two years.