As a child I used to hear adults talk about “the good old days” and reminisce about how good life had been when they were young. It always sounded as though something had gone wrong and had kept getting worse as time went by. And then at times they would change tack and emphasise how tough life had been “back then.” One would hear of how they used to walk long distances to school, many without shoes, and how they would go hungry the whole day, eating only after they returned home at sunset. This would be spiced up with stories about how far they had had to walk to fetch water or firewood, and how they would go to bed early because there was no paraffin to light lamps, let alone money to buy it. There were also stories about how such things as bread, sugar and sodas had been luxury items that only the rich could afford, with the rest of the masses waiting until Christmas to taste them. It all gave one the impression that, as children or young people, the storytellers had grown up in dire circumstances but that, even then, they had enjoyed their lives more than they did as independent adults who had left hardships and deprivation behind. Contradictions As I grew older, I learnt that this is part of the human life cycle with its contradictions. As we age, the past tends to look rather rosy, the present unsatisfactory, the future uncertain and somewhat anxiety inducing. And as a young person, one never imagines that time will come when one will repeat these same things to younger generations, again with many contradictions in between. The contradictions, though, do not mean that any of the claims one makes about the past and the present are necessarily false. Ugandans who grew up in the 1970s and 1980s can relate to this. We grew up in the era of coups d’etat, when the people who ended up in power had little or nothing to do with what we thought or wanted, given that they simply took it by force or staged elections in which candidates for rival political groups participated at a great risk to their wellbeing and sometimes even lives. Courts of law were there, of course, but whatever rulings judges made about cases depended on what assumptions they made about their implications for personal safety. Criticising leaders, for whatever reason, could get you killed, as could refusing to give up your watch, car or even wife if a soldier or a “big person” decided they wanted it or her. Life was precarious. Those who could, ran away leaving those who could not, to get on with life the best way they could. Not all was gloom and doom, though. Life was also good somehow. In the countryside, away from Kampala and other big towns where struggles for political power originate, people lived tranquil lives and grew their own food, and cash crops for which there was always a ready market via commodity marketing boards. Which is why, for every comment about how awful life used to be, there will be another about how wonderful things were. More civil One thing is for sure, though. Ugandans were more civil and more law abiding, and more considerate towards other people. And clearly law enforcement agencies were more minded to enforce the law then, even for the most mundane of infractions. The deterioration in civility, the rampant disregard for the law and of the rights or interests of other people, manifests most egregiously on our roads, in Kampala especially. To drive on Kampala roads is to witness the degree to which Ugandans disregard the law and how they take being civil as optional. Ignoring lanes and traffic lights, parking on pavements or in places with “no parking” signs, driving on pedestrian sidewalks. How we got here and learnt to treat these practices as “normal” — so much so that even the police have joined us in treating them as such, would be an interesting empirical investigation. But perhaps even more interesting would be to investigate how it is that politicians, including heads of important national institutions and even judges, have chosen to join in rather than work to bring about change, which they can, given their status. To illustrate how far Ugandans from all walks in life have fallen and how unwilling we are to change or make change happen, one has to consider a campaign started some weeks ago the by Daily Monitor newspaper, one of our leading newspapers. Every single day of the week they have been publishing, perhaps “exposing” is a more accurate term, photographs of cars whose drivers simply won’t obey traffic rules. The idea was that at the very least, it would serve as a deterrent to others, at most as a free service to the police who should identify the said vehicles, apprehend their drivers and mete out necessary and deserved punishment. Alas, neither has happened. And so every day, one sees motorists behaving as if they are competing in who will break the law the most. In future, perhaps some people will look back and describe today as a golden era of driving in Uganda. Frederick Golooba-Mutebi is a Kigali-based researcher and writer on politics and public affairs. E-mail: fgmutebi@yahoo.com   United Nations secretary-general shortlists Nairobi to host the UN Regional Service Centre in Security Council warns as it discusses Juba