Nigerian authorities have shut 58 universities in a crackdown against questionable academic institutions. The National Universities Commission (NUC), which grants approvals for establishment of universities and academic programmes, explained that the institutions violated minimum standards. The universities, many of which have their headquarters abroad, would no longer be allowed to operate in any part of Nigeria. NUC warned against patronising the affected institution as their certificates would not be recognised for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), employment and further studies. The blacklisted institutions include the University of Accountancy and Management Studies, Christians of Charity American University of Science and Technology, Nkpor, Anambra State; University of Industry, Yaba, Lagos, University of Applied Sciences and Management, Port Novo, Republic of Benin, Blacksmith University, Akwa. Operating anywhere Volta University College, HO, Volta Region, Ghana or any of its other campuses in Nigeria; Royal University, Izhia, Ebonyi State; Atlanta University, Anyigba, Kogi state; United Christian University, Macotis campus, Imo State or any of its other campuses; and United Nigeria University College, Okija in Anambra State have also been blacklisted. Also named are International University, Missouri USA, Kano and Lagos studies centres; Columbus University, UK, operating anywhere in Nigeria; Tiu International University, UK operating anywhere in Nigeria; and Pebbles University, UK operating anywhere in Nigeria; and London External Studies, UK, operating anywhere in Nigeria. “For the avoidance of doubt, anybody who patronises or obtains any certificate from any of these illegal institutions does so at his or her own risk,” NUC’s Director of Information, Mr Ibrahim Yakassai, said. Mr Yakassai warned that the law enforcement agencies had been notified for further action. Poor implementation The commission would not relent in its effort to shut every illegal institution in the country, he said. NUC confirmed that a senator was a holder of an invalid PhD certificate as the institution he attended was among the illegal ones. Education minister Adamu Adamu warned stakeholders in education to stop cutting corners. He said Nigeria could not achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) due to poor implementation of education programmes. Mr Adamu said the federal government was geared towards addressing decay in the system.   Security Council accuses top Juba official of ceasefire violations