Returning for its second edition is the Prime Saturday, a social event, which brings together Rwandans in Kigali into an evening of music celebration by Deejays. Taking place on May 12, at JJ Club of Park Inn Hotel in Kigali, the event will this time feature the award-winning Kenyan deejay Joe Mfalme headlining the evening, on top of performances by local deejays. Joe Mfalme, also Kenya’s Capital FM and Channel O’s resident deejay, is also the winner of the 2010 Pilsner Mfalme Hottest Media DJ. Happening once every three months, the event which was initiated in November last year, and hosted by Kenyan deejay Crème De La Creme in performance is also aimed at embracing the success of established deejay brands, alongside acknowledging the growth of local brands. “This is an event of a lifetime, which we hope to enjoy, since deejay Mfalme is a well experienced entertainer,” explains Jim Ford Angulu alias VJ. Nano who is one of the organisers. Live music A few years ago, Rwanda was not a hotspot for live music entertainment. On weekends, city folk (particularly the youth) would hop on a bus to neighbouring countries like Uganda or Burundi just to have fun — but that is now fast changing. Today there is reawakening of the live music scene in Rwanda, and live music events are the rave in Kigali. The fact that Prime Saturday is coming for a second edition, proves that Kigali has come of age and is slowly coming up to the standards of Kampala, Nairobi and Dar es Salaam. Lately, Kenya’s Sauti Sol has found a home in Kigali, not to mention several regional musicians who are frequent performers here. Beyond daily or weekly music events, each year KigaliUp festival brings together local and international artists in live performances and also conducts music workshops for local artists and music professionals from the region and beyond. The festival is the brainchild of one of Rwanda’s most talented musicians, Mighty Popo, together with other stakeholders, to celebrate African music and musicians through hosting top talent in traditional, gospel, reggae and soul music. KigaliUp marked its fifth edition in July 2015. The festival has managed to bring together well known Rwandan musicians as well as international musicians. This include Senegalese star Ismael Lo, Burundi’s Kidum, award-winning Rwandan artist Jean Paul Samputu, Tumi & the Volume from South Africa and the late Mbira songstress Chiwoniso from Zimbabwe.   The new documentary film Rwanda: The Royal Tour, is the talk of the town. In 4yrs Kiongosi grew from a struggling mitumba trader to a multimillion shilling investor.