Western diplomats to Kenya have condemned ongoing corruption scandals in the country and called for decisive action to be taken. In a joint statement on Wednesday, the 18 envoys said graft had undermined Kenya's prosperity, security, and democracy. “It is, quite simply, theft from the Kenyan people,” they said. The envoys said they are “providing wide-ranging assistance and support” to help Kenyans fight against corruption and were pleased by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s statement to address the scourge. “As friends, we welcome the recent action by the Director of Public Prosecutions, working with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, to charge officials and others in connection with reports of widespread corruption at the National Youth Service,” the diplomats said. “We urge that Kenya’s judiciary take swift action, consistent with the rule of law, to ensure fair trials and justice.” No shortcuts They noted that while no country is free of corruption, there are no shortcuts to tackling the problem. “It requires strong Kenyan political leadership, a commitment to zero tolerance for corruption, and all government and law enforcement agencies working together. “When there is evidence of corruption, those responsible should be prosecuted regardless of political party, social stature, or personal connections,” said the envoys led by Robert Godec, the United States Ambassador to Kenya. Kenya is grappling with recent revelations that the NYS has lost $90 million to corruption even before the 2015 scandal where the same organisation lost $791,000 is yet to be solved. Diplomats said Kenyans need strong, reliable institutions and systems that reduce the opportunities for corruption, where individuals or organisations found guilty of stealing should forfeit the proceeds of their crimes. “The challenge is for all Kenyans to join hands, take decisive action, and make the changes that are needed.” The other diplomats are ambassadors, high commissioners and head of delegation of the European Union, Sweden, Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Ireland, United Kingdom, Denmark, Switzerland, Finland, Australia, Canada, Poland, Romania and Norway.   Top brass, 17 other middle-level and junior level officials held. Miraya Radio reporters ordered to keep off government functions It's nearly impossible to cancel a mobile money transaction made in error.