Equatorial Guinea President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo has pledged to strengthen relations with Zimbabwe’s new administration led by Emmerson Mnangagwa. President Nguema’s two-day visit to the southern African country came amid reports alleging that ousted Zimbabwe ruler Robert Mugabe had sought funding from him to launch a political comeback. The 94-year-old veteran politician, who ruled his country for 37 years since Independence from Britain in 1980, fell dramatically in November last year, after he was put under house arrest by the military before resigning under pressure from his own party and the opposition. He was succeeded by Mnangagwa. A longtime ally of Mugabe, President Nguema told journalists in Harare on Thursday that he had not come to make new negotiations because “we have some (bilateral relations) from the past. We came to reinforce what we have already established for the development of both nations.” The 75-year-old Equatoguinean has ruled the West African country for 38 years, since 1979, and is Africa’s longest serving president. President Mnangagwa describe the visit as “natural”, adding that Nguema “has been coming here in the past and he continues to come here, and in the future he is going to come. So there is nothing out of the way, this is natural and normal." “We have several agreements between Zimbabwe and Equatorial Guinea government,” he said. “We will continue to implement them and embrace new ones as we go forward. “We have always worked together. We have had cooperation with Equatorial Guinea, we shall cooperate today and tomorrow.” President Nguema was accompanied by four Cabinet ministers and several senior government officials. Nguema and Mugabe forged a close bond in 2004 after Zimbabwe foiled a coup plan by mercenaries led by a former British soldier Simon Mann when they were arrested in Harare on their way to Malabo to carry out the ouster. In March this year, a top presidential aide claimed Nguema had turned down a request by Mugabe to fund an opposition party that he has pledged to support in the forthcoming elections. On Friday there were unconfirmed reports that Nguema would hold private talks with Mugabe.   Uganda, Kenya see light at the end of the tunnel except for a few hiccups. For Rwanda, Macron’s untainted past is likely to boost efforts to permanently mend relationships.