Disclaimer: I did not watch The Royal Wedding but I did see an online clip of how Harry looked at Meghan though. It was like Otis Redding’s When A Man Loves A Woman in his gaze. The British Royal Family is a wonderful vessel through which to channel one’s fantasies, vexations and political discussion. And nothing attracts more opinions than their weddings. Obviously Ms Markle’s African ancestry stirred up the full spectrum of feelings about race and class and gold diggers. There were the usual accusations that the Royals were not in favour of Meghan and congratulations that they are. I only got invested when some very mean person face-swapped Donald Trump and Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II to create a meme of her pouting at the ceremony? What has she done to deserve such venom? I am a fan of this Queen, she is one of my guerrilla feminist icons. It is not encouraged to consider the lives and challenges of the over-privileged, but I have always been fascinated by those who are born into a gilded cage. What do they do with the power and the restrictions that come with this? Queens are women too, first and foremost. And Elizabeth is a quietly feisty one. Don’t let all that tea sipping fool you. When her beloved father died, she had to ascend to the throne at the tender age of 26 or so. Over the course of her reign, the British Empire disappeared, the cultural and information revolutions took place, as did Brexit and the Cold War. In betwixt it all, there was Diana Princess of Wales. But she has weathered it all, giving soft-spoken speeches and waving gently. Oh, also giving the late Saudi King the fright of his life by personally driving him around her Scotland grounds just a touch too fast... because women can’t drive in Saudi Arabia. And learning how to fix engines during World War II because she couldn’t really get any closer to the action. Or having a magnificently snippy moment at Anne Liebovitz when the photographer had the gall to ask Her Majesty to change costume and pose more for a Vanity Fair piece (yes, fury does sound better in calibrated plummy tones). She puts me in mind of the matriarchal Indlovukazi. I do not think it is by mistake that the House of Windsor is so publicly embracing an ... unconventional union. European princes are not strangers to people of African descent, but how many marry them? And isn’t that a large part of our fascination with royalty in the first place — all the inbreeding and the antiquated pomposity and ceremony of it all? But heck if that wasn’t a thoroughly contemporary service. The queen is an old lady and she does have a resting I Am Not Amused face now. But if she dipped her head at the wedding, having been held hostage to public opinion from birth, I am going to imagine she was smiling to herself, especially on the inside. Her grandchildren are happy. Her family is secured. We all got to thoroughly enjoy the sight of David Beckham in formal wear. The most ancient institution of hereditary power has been dragged just that little bit further into modernity. And at such a critical time in history, inter-raciality has subtly been accorded the boost it needs. Imagine how many nationalists cried themselves to sleep? So I raise a gin and tonic to her Majesty. Quietly presenting the face of staunch tradition and having tea in gardens. Quietly making normal what would have been gross miscegenation in her youth. Sure, Princesses are fun... but the story and the drive into the future is usually driven by queens. Elsie Eyakuze is a consultant and blogger for The Mikocheni Report. E-mail: elsieeyakuze@gmail.com   Kinshasa suspects closed-door dealings on the crisis-riddled country's future. UK and Dutch lawmakers question Rwanda-Arsenal sponsorship agreement