The state telling religious leaders not to “meddle” in politics is not new in Africa. It would be a strange government that welcomed criticism by the clergy. Some clergymen have paid the ultimate price. Kenya had the Anglican Bishop of Eldoret, Alexander Muge, who, his Cape Town counterpart Desmond Tutu insists, was killed in a “road execution.” Uganda had several priests murdered during the military rule of the 1970s. But modern, sophisticated leaders don’t go shooting or organising road accidents for bishops to silence them. Rather, they keep them happy before they begin talking. In Uganda for example, we don’t refer to the president as “Assistant God” for nothing. For he knows how to handle God’s staff. For many years now, bishops of the mainstream churches have come to expect some form of “facilitation” from the “Assistant God.” Whenever a bishop is consecrated, the president gives him a little prize in form of a powerful, fuel guzzling SUV. In fact, there was a time Uganda’s “Assistant God” was either in a mean mood or was genuinely hard-up and he gave a new bishop a saloon car instead of an SUV. The bishop was not amused. The man of God complained publicly and an ensuing public debate tried to rationalise why the new bishop was being discriminated against to get “only” a brand new saloon while others before him (and after) got SUVs. Some even suspected that some corrupt officials had bought the cheaper saloon car when the president had actually authorised the purchase of an SUV, and that the officials must have pocketed the difference. Now this past Easter season was dominated by top clergymen complaining of the state’s interference in their work. The most startling complaints were made by the Roman Catholic prelate of Kampala, Archbishop Cyprian Kizito Lwanga. He said he was being spied on by the state, that he was being wrongly suspected of plotting to overthrow President Yoweri Museveni, that state intelligence has infiltrated the church. As expected, the archbishop was lambasted by pro-regime voices, telling him to leave politics to the politicians. The clergyman raised the stakes with a bombshell. He said that recently, one of his priests had died and hardly had he been buried than the police came to church, requesting some government equipment. They were allowed into the dead man’s room from which they retrieved the dead priest’s service pistol and left. When the archbishop of the biggest and oldest church starts talking of armed priests you don’t want him to go on. A gracious invitation came from State House for “discussions.” Actually, several leaders of other denominations were also invited. After the meeting with the president, it was reported that the president had given Ush5 million ($137,000) to the archbishop to put in a church-run savings and credit association for vulnerable people. Peace-loving Ugandans sighed with relief as nobody wants to live in a country where the state and the church are at loggerheads. But not everybody was amused. Outspoken Mukono Municipality MP Betty Nambooze, a staunch Catholic, said now she fears going to confession because she doesn’t know whether she would be telling her transgressions to God’s representative or Museveni’s representative. Joachim Buwembo is a Kampala-based journalist. Email:buwembo@yahoo.com   United Nations secretary-general shortlists Nairobi to host the UN Regional Service Centre in Security Council warns as it discusses Juba