I returned to Ghana the other day some years after my last visit. The place has changed. The old, seedy airport has received a dramatic facelift, and a new world-class terminal opened on September 15. It’s also my first visit since Ghana ended pre-arrival visa requirements for all Africans last year, ensuring that the immigration process was extremely pleasurable. It used to be horrible. However, elegant built-up places are an unreliable indicator of whether a country is cleaning up its act, as even a corrupt dictatorship can pull that off. Ghana is, well, an African democracy. It holds relatively honest elections, and since 1992 leaders have respected the two-term presidential term limit, and not tried to change the Constitution to give themselves a third, fourth, and possibly up to a 10th bite at the cherry, as some other rulers on the continent have done. So if there is something novel, it is in how Ghana has changed as only a democracy can. It’s hard to spot, but there if you look. As it happened, I stayed at a hotel where on one of my past visits, I encountered then-president John Kufuor. We were in a crowded restaurant having lunch, and out of the corner of my eye I noticed that there was a table where a silver-haired man in a bad brown suit was sitting with his back to us, and a lot of people were stopping by to greet him. When we stood up for refills, that’s when we noticed it was president Kufuor. This is Africa. A chief is a chief. We also went over and greeted him. A lovely man. You know an African country is bedding-in democratic habits when its president goes to a restaurant to eat lunch like a regular bloke, and there are no men with machine guns standing around him. And it is that quiet settling-in that is unique in Ghana. You know a country is growing up when it begins to do projects, and they aren’t announced to the world with a lot of fanfare, or launched with dancers from all corners of the country. So you see international hotels all over the place, and you didn’t read about them being built or opened. Usually, commissioning roads and airports to drum rolls and displays by the air force, is something that leaders who have a democracy or legitimacy deficit do. Having stolen an election, or overstayed their welcome, they seek to cash in on the infrastructure dividend to help them overcome the perception shortfall. The conference test But more revealing are the types of conferences they host. Places like Ghana do big conferences on freedom and contested political issues with titles like “Africa’s lost post-Independence decades: Exploring the prospects for and risks to democracy.” The Big Man regime countries also hold big conferences, but they are about things like maternal health, immunisation, and deforestation, issues that you can have a purely technical discussion about without questioning the ruler’s or ruling party’s democratic record. Didn’t run into President Nana Akufo-Addo, but caught him a couple of times on TV: Well-spoken, striking a professorial note with his oval spectacles. Like his predecessors, he didn’t look like a constitution-amender either. Charles Onyango-Obbo is publisher of data visualiser Africapaedia and Rogue Chiefs. Twitter@cobbo3   President Magufuli says workers are not supporting the minister. Aircraft landed within seconds of each other when the accident occurred.