I travelled from Nairobi to Arusha recently. It is not a town that I would consider going to when I think of visiting Tanzania. I think of the islands — Zanzibar or Pemba — where the sand is so white you’d think it was bleached. Or maybe Dar es Salaam — the big city that never sleeps. Or maybe the capital, Dodoma, the current nerve centre of this country. But Arusha? Hmmm. Arusha is a hot, dusty, sleepy town (at least in September it is), that at first glance seems like it has little to offer to a traveller. But just like books are not supposed to be judged by their covers, neither are towns. Google would not help you much with this town; find a local. The first thing that stands out is Mt Meru. You can see the mountain from pretty much wherever you are. It is the backdrop of the city. If you like to hike, you can conquer the mountain in about four days. And when you get to the top, you can see the whole of Arusha at your feet. Arusha is the wildlife safari capital of Tanzania. Those who embark on the popular Northern Circuit stop there before heading out into the bush. The best places to hang out include Arusha Coffee Lodge, which has lawns that look like they were printed straight from a postcard. About 10 minutes away from the coffee lodge is a place called TGT. Nobody calls it by its full name. It’s a sort of private club that also allows members of the public in. The roads are paved with trees on both sides — beautiful. And when you sit outside in the evening, the sunset is worth dying for. You could go to the Arusha Palace Hotel, in the CBD. It is one of the tallest buildings in town, and when you go up to the terrace you can see most of the city. Visit the Cultural Centre and see the tanzanite — sparkling blue gemstones mined on the outskirts of the town. Or you could go to Themi Falls — a place of lush gardens and hanging flowers. Do not go there for the waterfall; it is just a disappointing trickle of water. But the food, especially the fried fish, will have you singing. Or maybe drive towards Moshi, and after two hours take a detour to the hot springs. Some people call it Maji Moto. Others Kikuletwa. Others Chemichemi. You can call it whatever you like, because the name does not matter as much as the relaxing turquoise blue hot tub that mother nature offers us.   Assassination attempt and renewed ethnic clashes remain major challenges. Tanzanian tycoon runs multibillion-dollar business established by his father.