The Cameroon parliament has been re-convened for Friday in an apparent move towards the swearing-in of President Paul Biya who won a seventh seven-year term earlier this month. National Assembly Speaker Cavaye Yeguie Djibril said members of the Lower House of Parliament would begin meeting at 11am (local time), while the Senate, had also announced its members would begin sitting at 4pm the same day. Though an Ordinary Session dedicated to the examination and adoption of the state budget for 2019, it would also feature the swearing-in of President Biya as the opposition continues to protest his victory. Election results According to the law; the president-elect takes the oath of office before the Cameroonian people in the presence of Members of Parliament, the Constitutional Council and Supreme Court meeting in a solemn session. The ceremony that takes place within 15 days from the proclamation of election results, should accordingly be held before November 7. The opposition Cameroon Renaissance Movement (CRM) party has continued protests against President Biya's re-election, in defiance of a government warning against post-electoral disorder. The diaspora After losing the October 7 presidential election, CRM candidate Maurice Kamto announced a “national resistance programme” --a weeklong protest to challenge the victory and vowed to sabotage President Biya's swearing-in ceremony. Prof Kamto has refused to accept the poll outcome, insisting he won the vote whose official result show he emerged far second with 14.23 percent. President Biya was declared the winner with 71.28 percent vote. CRM has called on Cameroonians to wear white T-shirts and trousers as a protest, a day before President Biya's swearing-in ceremony. They have also scheduled protest rallies in front of administrative offices nationwide and embassies in the diaspora on the day of the swearing-in.   Call to party supporters to sabotage swearing-in ceremony Joint investigation reveals there are only 1.1 million refugees in Uganda. Paul Makonda threatens to arrest people suspected of being homosexuals.