President Muhammadu Buhari Monday expressed commitment to a credible General Election in Nigeria next year. Addressing the nation in alive broadcast from Abuja, to mark Nigeria's 58th independence anniversary, he said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), would be "exactly independent" and properly staffed and resourced. “I have committed myself many times to ensure that elections are fully participatory, free and fair and that the Independent National Electoral Commission will be exactly independent and properly staffed and resourced,“ said President Buhari. He frowned at the way the social media was being misused to provoke passions, describing it as an abuse of the new technologies. “As with other countries, we learn how to manage those tendencies that, instead, look to abuse new technologies to provoke passions and stir tensions," he said. Corrosive forces “Never before have we faced such a challenge. We must all rise to the responsibility of shutting out those disruptive and corrosive forces that hide in today’s world of social media. We need critical minds and independent thinking, to question and question until we are satisfied we have the facts." President Buhari also pledged that his administration would continue addressing “the challenges of our times’’, including conflicts, terrorism, trans-border crime and climate change. On Nigerian youths, the president noted that they had been at the vanguard of the struggle for independence, saying that they fought in the war to keep the country united. He added that the youth were the ones who kept alive the struggle for democracy and human rights at times when they were at a risk, especially following the June 12, 1993 election and the historic 2015 poll. President Buhari said Nigeria would continue to remain a responsible and respected member of the international community. General mayhem He maintained that Nigeria would continue to play “active positive roles within Ecowas, the African Union and the United Nations as well as all other regional and international organisations and institutions of which we are members’’. However, the president vowed that the perpetrators of murder and general mayhem in the name of defending or protecting herders or farmers would face the full wrath of the law. “We will sustain and continue to support the commendable efforts by all including civil society organisations, local and state governments and our traditional and religious leaders in finding durable solution to this problem. “This being a transhumance issue, we are working with countries in our region that are also facing similar difficulties to complement our common efforts. “In this context, I must warn that the perpetrators of murder and general mayhem in the name of defending or protecting herders or farmers will face the full wrath of the law,’’ he said.   Appeal for harmony as poll date approaches Magistrate rules Citizen TV news anchor could interfere with the investigations