Kenyan film director Likarion Wainaina has won the award for Best New Director in the New Voices category for his film Supa Modo at the just concluded 2018 Cape Town International Film Market and Festival. The jury described Wainaina as “a true new voice of contemporary cinema. The director succeeds in bringing his audience into the shoes of a kid, showing us the world through her eyes, without ever trivialising or overdramatising a difficult topic such as a child's illness. The director shows an uncommon capacity for leading his actors and keeping a difficult balance between drama, comedy and fairy tale." Supa Modo tells the story of a young girl whose dream of becoming a superhero is threatened by terminal illness, inspiring her village to rally together to make her dream come true. Supa Modo is Wainana’s debut film and has won seven awards in various international film festivals. Kenyans also did well in the Works in Progress programme with the jury having this to say of The Letter by Maia Lekow and Chris King: “For its subtle way of dealing with witchcraft issues and allowing us, through the eyes of a young character, to get deep into a Kenyan grandmother and her family, the jury awarded two weeks of Sound Design by Raphsody and two weeks of Final Sound Mix by the Moving Billboard Picture Company to The Letter.” Kenya’s Mugambi Nthiga was a co-writer on two of the latest Kenyan festival hits, Kati Kati and Supa Modo, which screened as part of the 2018 Festival Programme. Festival screenings were open to the public from October 10-19, at various cinemas on the V&A Waterfront, including free family-friendly films at the Amphitheatre in the city of Cape Town. The Gala Awards evening was held on October 19, at the refurbished Cape Town City Hall. With over 120 films in competition, across a range of categories, the various juries, made up of film experts from South Africa and abroad, did not have an easy task selecting the award winners. This year’s festival once again shone a spotlight on various genres from documentary to feature and short films, as well as themed awards such as Best LGBTQ, Best Asian Film, and a notable award for Best New Director. Festival director Leon van der Merwe had this to say of this year’s film selection, “I would like to congratulate the winners and thank the various juries for the selection of the awards. For more than a week, the juries had the opportunity to watch films from around the world. “The juries were especially impressed by the Asian features from countries such as Thailand, the Philippines and Taiwan, which offered innovative aesthetic approaches to the subject matter. “It was also a pleasure to experience the focus on contemporary Italian and Romanian cinema. The entries from across Africa also increased this year both in quantity and quality and it is clear that African cinema is on the cusp of a major resurgence,” van der Merwe added. Awards The overall winner of this year’s festival, also a recipient of three awards including the most coveted award of the night, the Grand Prix, as well as awards for Best Director and Best Actor was the Italian film, Dogman. The film also featured at this year’s Cannes Film Festival where Marcello Fonte also won for Best Actor.   Ugandan officials impounded a Rwandan truck over forged documents claims. Angela Ruhinda is ready to conquer Tanzania’s film industry.