Nigerian presidency on Sunday unveiled the names of the 50 high-profile personalities banned from foreign travel as a result of graft cases against them. They include 13 former governors and seven former ministers, all facing corruption trials. They were banned from travelling outside Nigeria under the Executive Order No. 6, issued by President Muhammadu Buhari. The restriction followed the judicial affirmation of the constitutionality and legality of the order. The watch-list and restriction were put in place pending the conclusion of the cases against those affected. Leaving the country The former governors barred from leaving the country are: Mr Saminu Turaki (Jigawa), Mr Murtala Nyako (Adamawa), Mr Adebayo Alao-Akala (Oyo), Mr Gabriel Suswam (Benue), Mr Rasheed Ladoja (Oyo) and Mr Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia). Others are Mr Danjuma Goje (Gombe), Mr Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto), Mr Muazu Babangida Aliyu (Niger); Mr Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu); Mr Sule Lamido (Jigawa); Mr Gbenga Daniel (Ogun) and Mr Ibrahim Shehu Shema (Katsina). The affected governors belong to both the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). On the list also is the former National Security Adviser, Col (Rtd) Sambo Dasuki , currently in detention for misapplying the sum of $2.1 billion. Two women former ministers, Ms Nenadi Usman and Ms Jumoke Akinjide, also made the list, along with Mr Bashir Yuguda, Mr Bala Mohammed; Mr Abba Moro; Mr Femi Fani-Kayode; and Mr Ahmadu Fintiri. Corrupt practices Others include a former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Marshal Alex Badeh; ex- Chief of Naval Staff, Vice-Admiral A. D. Jibrin; a former Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Mohammed Dikko Umar; a former Inspector-General of Police, Mr Sunday Ehindero; and a former Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Adesola Amosu; Chairman Emeritus of AIT/ Raypower, High Chief Raymond Dokpesi; Waripamowei Dudafa (a former Special Assistant (Domestic) to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan); a former Chief Judge of Enugu State, Justice Innocent Umezulike and a former judge of the Federal High Court, Justice Rita Ofili-Ajumogobia; Also on the list are a former PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Olisa Metuh; Chief Jide Omokore; Mr Ricky Tarfa; and Mr Dele Belgore (SAN). Most of those affected were currently facing trial for alleged corrupt practices in different courts.   Minister says opposition Peoples Democratic Party members not targeted Mystery of terror attack that claimed no fewer than 500 lives Tea quality and prices in the region have been falling.