Kenya's Citizen TV journalist Jacque Maribe, a suspect in the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani in Nairobi, will stay in police cells longer, a court has ruled. A court in Kiambu, north of Nairobi, Monday allowed police to hold Ms Maribe for 11 more days at Gigiri Police Station in the capital Nairobi as they investigate the case. The court had ordered a 10-day detention but revised it to 11 after it was established that October 10 is a holiday on which courts do not transact business. Detectives brought Ms Maribe to court at 8.30am (+3GMT) and locked her up at the cells as she waited for her date with destiny. She was taken to court a few minutes after 9am, with the state prosecution making an application to extend her lock-up as they investigate the murder that has also seen the detention of her fiancé, Mr Joseph Kuria Irungu. Ballistic examination The prosecutors had asked the court to allow police to detain the news anchor for another 14 days, saying the charges she was facing were serious. They cited ballistic examination of the samples that they took from the suspect's house and a pending DNA test among other reasons to back up their request. If set free, they told the magistrate, Ms Maribe was likely to interfere with the ongoing investigations. But her lawyer Katwa Kigen, who lost the battle for the news anchor's temporary freedom, had opposed the request, saying the time requested for was unreasonable. The reasons given by the prosecution, Mr Kigen said, were not compelling. The throat slit The anchor, who broke the news of Ms Kimani’s death on TV, was arrested on Saturday, days after she was interrogated by detectives over case. Mr Irungu, the main suspect in the murder, was last week presented before Kiambu Senior Resident Magistrate Stella Atambo who allowed police to detain him for 10 more days as they investigate the case. Ms Kimani’s body was found in a bathtub at her house in Kilimani, Nairobi, with the throat slit and hands tied at the back. Mr Irungu, Ms Maribe, and their mutual friend Brian Kassaine, in whose house detectives found a gun hidden in the ceiling, are the suspects in police custody so far. Mr Kassaine is also expected in court on Monday or Tuesday.   Okoth Obado, the Migori County governor, is charged with murder of his girlfriend. President expresses commitment to fair election and national unity