The Angolan government has asked the United Nations to help it fight corruption, official confirmed. The state-owned Jornal de Angola quoted Mr Paolo Balladelli, confirming the request by Luanda. Mr Balladelli was quoted saying the UN was helping the southern African country's Attorney-General Office deal with the corruption issues transcending its borders. Last month during the ruling MPLA's sixth extraordinary congress, President João Lourenço pledged to fight corruption, nepotism and impunity, adding that the ills were the top enemies of the nation that compromised the investors’ confidence. His predecessor President Lourenço took over from Mr José Eduardo dos Santos in August 2017, following an election marking the end of a 38-year reign. He has since made numerous decisions affirming his divergence from the shadows of his predecessor. It is believed that former President dos Santos's allies have fortunes abroad, hence the need for the UN's help. Angolan National Reserve Bank Governor, Mr José de Lima Massano, confirmed that over $30 billion belonging to the country was deposited abroad. Foreign Affairs minister Manuel Augusto confirmed last month that he had contacts with the US State Department to repatriate the stolen money and support Angola with other reforms. Oil exporter It was not clear the amount of money Angolan nationals had illegally shipped to the US. Apart from the US, it is believed that Angolan nationals have cash stashed in Portugal, the UK, Switzerland, South Africa and Cape Verde. Angola, Africa's leading oil exporter, has a population of 26 million, majority of them impoverished, and earn less than $2 per day. According to the United Nations, the oil sector represents 97 per cent of Angola’s exportation and 80 per cent of public revenues and employs one per cent of the population. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) in June said the dramatic drop in oil prices, substantially reduced Angola's tax revenues and exports, with growth coming to a halt and inflation accelerating sharply.   Former president's kin and close allies bear the brunt of new political dispensation 'What you hear and what you see is not necessarily what is going on behind the scenes.' The trains handle about 40 percent of the port cargo transport business.