More than half of Kampala is mourning the fall of iron lady Jennifer Musisi, executive director of the Kampala Capital City Authority. KCCA, which runs the city, was born after many years of frustration for residents with the mafia-like management by local politicians. Kampala was just like the rest of the country, with local governments elected through councillors and district chairpersons. But because Kampala belongs to the country and the world, it was deemed fit to save it from the partisan and petty politics that bedevils other districts. So parliament in 2010 passed a new Act creating KCCA under an executive director. The first ED was Jennifer Musisi, a lawyer with public finance experience. Musisi, whose name in Luganda means earthquake, hit Kampala like a seismic upheaval. There was a 4-star military general, David Sejusa, who was occupying a prime property in the city under contested authority. Musisi read him the riot Act. The general, a war veteran who knows how to choose his battles, saw the deadly determination in Musisi's eyes and ran. Next Musisi turned her guns onto the previous city mayor, Nasser Sebaggala, a populist character who was also occupying a public property in the city centre. She told him to quit and he hesitated. Enforcement crews came, threw his expensive furniture out and as fate would have it, that day it rained heavily. The former mayor cut his losses and ran. Looking farther, Musisi saw Centenary Park, meant to be a green space in the city but with several concrete structure coming up on it. The earthquake hit but found a solid rock therein. The minister for trade who had just ended her tenure as long-serving principal private secretary to the president, Ameia Kyambadde, drew the line in the sand for the new ED, vowing to protect “her” traders, as her portfolio was promotion of trade. But Musisi shoved harder and the minister also cut and ran. The sister then turned on the incumbent mayor, Erias Lukwago, an opposition politician embroiled in battles with the ruling party who certainly isn't President Yoweri Museveni's favourite person. Musisi made the mayor's life unbearable and even locked him out his office. She blocked the mayor's salary for half of his five-year tenure. Lukwago got re-elected two years ago and declared that he had defeated President Museveni. Last week, Musisi tendered her resignation to the president, citing politics that had made her work as a technocrat difficult. Mayor Lukwago was overcome with excitement and broke into song before the cameras in jubilation. Still more than half of Uganda is mourning Musisi's departure. This is on account of her having demonstrated that the capital city can actually work if run professionally rather than politically. But you cannot keep politics out of the city as long as the councillors are elected. And while the opposition keeps winning city elections, Lukwago blames ruling party politics for the city mess. For while the government blames the "Lukwago supporters" like small traders and mobile vendors who violate orderliness in the city, Lukwago also blames the government for its supporting parallel groups like politicised boda boda riders and helping them avoid registration and paying dues to KCCA. Mayor Lukwago and less than half of the country may be celebrating Musisi's downfall, but most people are concerned over the possible slide into the old, murky pre-Musisi Kampala.   Joint investigation reveals there are only 1.1 million refugees in Uganda. Paul Makonda threatens to arrest people suspected of being homosexuals.