The Ugandan MP was interviewed by NTV Kenya’s Ken Mijungu at his house in Kampala. Here is an excerpt of the interview. ------------------------------------------ You have been very vocal on the need for change. When did you realise that Ugandans need change? For a long time, I was just a music artiste making good money and did not care much. However, once I bought my Escalade, I was attacked by a security officer simply because I was driving an expensive car. That incident opened my eyes to the injustices around me. That is when my music began to change, from mere songs to addressing issues affecting our people. But I had to go beyond just singing and take an active role in trying to change things through parliament. One of your song’ lyrics has it that when leaders become mis-leaders, mentors become tormentors, when freedom of expression becomes the target of oppression, opposition becomes our position? Our president was once a great African revolutionary. When he was my age, he was a shining example. But now we resist what is wrong peacefully. We will stick to the rules and values and assert our rights. At a recent press conference, you said: “Let Ugandans go”; Were you addressing the president? Yes, he is so powerful that he holds views that are disrespectful and oppressive. He does not seem to care that we have been enslaved by poverty, overtaxation. He should free us so that we decide which type of leaders we want to lead us. When he was my age he promised so much. That is the vision our people sacrificed for. We now hold those same ideals about freedom. How far are you ready to push this struggle? I wish this was far enough, but we had no reason to be in this position in the first place. Even in Kenya, the people are freer but I still believe life can be better. I decided never to be enslaved in my homeland. I will fight injustice as long as I live. When you were elected, you pledged to address issues and give people confidence. What did you mean? Our young people rarely believe in themselves because of stereotypes or status quo. When I realised that we can live better than this, I made a practical demonstration, beyond what I could do through song. WATCH: One-on-one with Ugandan MP Bobi Wine   Opposition leader Odinga insists on referendum while Deputy President Ruto opposes it. Who will copy Kenyan politicians’ agility in crafting alliances?