Plane food has a bad reputation for mostly being bland. While there’s more variety in First and Business Class, chefs end up using more salt and sugar in their meals because the loud noises, dry air and low pressure affect the sense of taste. Airlines are constantly seeking new ways to make the customer experience more comfortable. It could be through more comfortable seating, variety in the in-flight entertainment or the meals served. In early October, Emirates introduced a new menu specific to East Africa. The airline serves about 110 million meals annually. “For our Dubai–Nairobi sector (both ways), we served over 550,000 customers across all three classes in 2017 and 2018. And on our Dubai–Dar es Salaam sector (both ways), we served over 160,000 customers across all three classes in 2017 and 2018,” said Nasser Iskeirjah, the regional catering manager for Africa. New dishes An in-house team of chefs review customer feedback and upgrade current menus to create new dishes that reflect the taste and preferences of customers on a specific route. The recently launched new menus include at least one dish that is influenced by local cuisine. This is in addition to a selection of international cuisine that caters for other taste preferences. “It takes anywhere between six and 14 months to come up with a new menu,” said Emirates country manager for Kenya, Hendrik du Preez. The menu now includes traditional dishes such as kuku paka, chicken in a coconut curry, served with butter rice and seasonal vegetables from Dar es Salaam, and nyama na irio, a Kenyan beef stew and mashed peas with potatoes and corn, served with grilled carrot incorporated. To simulate being on an aeroplane, last Monday we went to the highest point in Westlands, Nairobi, the 24th floor of the Movenpick Hotel. From here, we could see all the way to the city centre, and imagined that we were on an Emirates flight, fantasising that we were flying First Class. The part of the experience that we did not have to visualise was the food. We enjoyed meals exactly like those served in First and Business Class.   We sampled three canapés: Buffalo mozzarella with pea cream and smoked olive oil, bresaola with feta and cinnamon poached pear, and salmon with panko herb crumble. The bresaola was my favourite, as the pear was well paired with the cheese. “Our menus are tailored to suit local and diverse taste profiles. We listen to feedback from our customers, keep a close watch on the latest food trends, and invest in creating inspired menus that will surprise and delight,” said Mr Iskeirjah. For the first main course, we had grilled chicken served with tomato coriander sauce, fried plantain, sautéed courgette and buttered carrots. The chicken was tender and tasty. If I had my way, I would have added a little pepper to give it some kick. The second main course was a coconut fish curry, served with spiced crushed aubergine, steamed Basmati rice and baked flat bread. This was more to my taste, as the aubergine had just the right amount of spices. Both these courses are only available on Business and First Class. “The menu changes every month, in a four-month cycle, so that frequent flyers do not end up eating the same food,” Mr du Preez said. “We incorporate local flavours and dishes as per the destination. You get the option of fried plantain on the West African route, and if you’re flying to Japan you get a Bento Box. We also change according to holidays and special events like Oktoberfest, Christmas, Easter and Diwali,” he added. For our first dessert we had a chocolate tart with sliced orange and passion fruit coulis — heavenly for those of us with a sweet tooth. The second dessert was the sticky date pudding served with caramel sauce and cream, an ideal end to a first-class evening.   Ugandan officials impounded a Rwandan truck over forged documents claims. Angela Ruhinda is ready to conquer Tanzania’s film industry.