I saw a helicopter.It was flying low.It was flying just above the trees.“Our leader! Our leader!” we shouted.It was our Member of Parliament.He travels in a plane. It belongs to him. The helicopter landed at our school playground.Three big cars arrived in our compound.They, too, belonged to him.He came out and greeted us.His wife waved at us. She had golden rings in her hand. This passage is from an English textbook for Grade Two pupils introduced in the much-hyped new curriculum in Kenya. The passage is disturbing on many levels. First, is the erratic, as opposed to, logical progression of ideas. The helicopter should first land, then the identity of the VIP be revealed, before children can shout “Our leader!” Then there is hopping from one tense to another that is likely to confuse young English learners. Then, wrong prepositions. You land on a playing field, land at a school and land in a town, and, of course, one has golden rings on one’s hand, unless, of course, the fine lady accompanying our “dear leader” was carrying the rings in the palm of her hand, a ridiculous proposition, but one not beyond the culture of vulgar displays of opulence among Kenya’s political elite. The pupils are young, and with time, they will be able to learn correct tense and prepositional use. With time, they will also learn how to string ideas together in a logical progression. What they may never be able to unlearn is the indoctrination in the above passage. What the passage teaches is an ethos crafted and propagated by the political class since Independence in 1963. The nationalist ideology that underpinned the struggle for independence was anchored in freedom and equity. But soon, the leadership embarked on a stupefying pursuit of wealth. The peasants and workers who had fought for Independence, either by arms in the forest or through strike action in the streets, were forgotten in this mad rush for riches. To underline this new “gospel of prosperity,” Kenya’s first president Jomo Kenyatta chided freedom fighter Bildad Kaggia for remaining true to his nationalist ideals. In a rally at which Kaggia was present, the president, after giving examples of the wealth other nationalist leaders had acquired, asked: “Kaggia, what have you done for yourself?” By the 1980s and ‘90s, Kenya, by even favourable accounts, was a kleptocracy. Everything was game for acquisition: School fields, hospital land, forests critical to our survival, etc. The political class lived a charmed life that was the envy of politicians in much richer countries. A report shows that 8,000 individuals own more than two-thirds of Kenya’s wealth. And recently, it was revealed that the money stolen by the Kenyan elite and stashed in “imperialist countries” is a mindboggling Ksh15 trillion ($150 billion). This amount, some have calculated, is enough to pay off Kenya’s debt and fund the national budget for five years. To make moral the immorality of so much wealth in the hands of so few in so poor a country, the political class created a value system that elevated wealth (no matter how acquired) into a virtue, overlooking values such as compassion, hard work, honesty, etc. In this endeavour, the elite were aided by two key institutions – the church and the media. The church welcomed donations from politicians, and surrendered their pulpits to them to testify how the Lord had showered them with blessings. Newsrooms ceded prime time to enable them to launder their images. The media obsequiously broadcast images of helicopters bringing politicians to government-forsaken villages. Today, thanks to the media, every youth can recite the rags-to-riches myths of politicians, but know nothing about legends like Ali Mazrui or Thomas Odhiambo. Only in Kenya can stone throwers and foreskin theorists become media superstars, and not internationally acclaimed scholars like Calestous Juma. By contrast, academics like Henry Louis Gates or Noam Chomsky are media superstars in their country. The political class in Kenya has succeeded in creating a country after its own vision. The new curriculum, we are told, aims to make a child “an engaged, empowered and ethical citizen.” But the book above, aims at creating the next generation of cheerleaders for greed. Children were being taught to grovel before power, mindlessly singing: “Our leader!” They are being taught to aspire to wear gold rings. They are being taught that money, like cleanliness, is next to God, and the wealthy politician is the model of a moral and accomplished human being. Tee Ngugi is a social and political commentator based in Nairobi.   Burundi envoy compared Senegalese UN probe team chair to a slave trade participant. Strong case built by US prosecutors is the likely reason the Akasha brothers pleaded guilty.