More than two years after South Sudan became a member of the East Africa Community, its citizens visiting Kenya and Uganda still have to pay $50 for an entry visa. At the points of entry into the different partner states, this newspaper found that South Sudanese visiting Rwanda, Tanzania and Burundi do not pay any entry visa fees. But when visiting Uganda and Kenya, they are required to pay for their entry visa. South Sudan officially joined EAC in September 2016, when the country’s leaders deposited instruments ratifying the Treaty, its annexes and protocols. Having deposited these with the EAC secretary general, South Sudan started the process of filling different positions that it was guaranteed, as a member of the Community. First was the appointment of Justice Charles Oyo Nyawello to the East African Court of Justice. South Sudan also nominated nine members of the East African Legislative Assembly and appointed a defence liaison officer, stationed at the EAC Secretariat as well as a commissioner to the ad hoc EAC service commission. While South Sudan joining the EAC represented a boon for some in the political class and members of the civil and defence services who have been appointed to jobs, the country alongside its partners at the EAC Secretariat seem to have forgotten about implementation of the people-centred sections of the treaty. Currently there are three protocols that are integral parts of the EAC treaty. These include the Customs Union, Monetary Union and the Common market protocol. The Common Market guarantees five freedoms and two rights. These are the right of establishment of a business and right of residence. The freedoms are free movement of goods, services, labour, capital and persons removes impediments like entry visa fees. While EAC partner states still flout significant parts of the Common Market Protocol, freedom of movement of persons has largely been respected with citizens allowed to travel without paying visa fees. Tanzania had an exception to this rule; Ugandans going to Tanzania for business are required to pay $100 for an entry visa. South Sudan, Uganda and Kenya are now the latest group to flout the freedom of movement guaranteed by the EAC Common Market Protocol.   Progress on integration remains a case of one step forward, two steps back. Sources say Kigali and Kampala have removed individuals from some posts to allow a thawing of Kenya is banking on KQ to sell tourism and itself as a commercial destination.