A common complaint among emerging Kenyan artists is not having enough gallery space to showcase their creativity. Six artists are tackling this through a conceptual exhibition called If Not Now, showing at the Cave Bureau, an architectural company. Not only is the show space unusual, the techniques used and visitor experience are unconventional. Nelson Ijakaa Imo deliberates on socio-political issues “without using traditional figurative techniques.” Broken pieces of black perspex dangle on strings under bright lights, throwing indecipherable shadows onto the white walls. Whether he is depicting extrajudicial killings, political impunity or personal experiences, Ijakaa lets viewers create their own explanations about the projected images. Multidisciplinary artist Namikoyo Wanjala presents self-portrait photography that explores gender, sexuality and mental health. Through blurry images in black-and-white, he is part of young people on the continent “voicing their statements.” Agnes Waruguru uses “women’s crafts” to illustrate transformation and regeneration of used and discarded items. A sheer curtain artwork on a wall, called Composition V, has glass beads, embroidery thread ink and paper. Dangling from the ceiling is an untitled installation of a table cloth and yarn. Waruguru says her recycled materials reference “different time periods.” Cartooning is the current attraction of Sujay Shah as he seeks to present the absurdity of life through black and white drawings and illustrations of two-coloured caricatures. Shah says, “Humour and existentialism, through parody and satire... are what I’m trying to get at.” Jonathan Fraser is fascinated with the human form, its movements, communication with other people and relationships to space. His prints of soft pastels on paper have geometric designs fixed with human motifs in different poses. Andrew Irungu is a fourth-year student at Kenyatta University. His acrylics and spray paint images in monochrome portray bleak scenes of abandoned structures and buildings under construction. The abandonment and harsh environments reflect the hard road he has travelled. The show runs until 1st November and viewing is by appointment only.   Not only is the show space unusual, the techniques used and visitor experience are unconventional. Angela Ruhinda is ready to conquer Tanzania’s film industry. Bujumbura says the country is mourning its national heroes.