The East African Court of Justice this past week declined to issue an injunction against the government of Kenya in a case filed by a county governor. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony was seeking orders to direct the Ministry of Education to provide temporary school facilities for 5,000 pupils evicted from the Mau Complex in the Rift Valley. The regional court declined to issue the orders in the absence of the respondent, instead ordering that an application for interim orders in presence of the respondent be filed. In his application, Prof Chepkwony said that pupils from 23 primary schools had been denied their basic rights to food, shelter, health and education as a result of the evictions from the forest. Some of the minors, whose schools were closed or destroyed by government agents, are due to sit the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examinations later this year, he said. But the First Instance Division of the EACJ declined to grant the orders without giving the Kenyan government the opportunity to be heard. The court said in its ruling that the applicant had not tendered supportive evidence to ascertain that the Kenya government had made no arrangement whatsoever to ensure the continuity of the education of the affected minors. “Documentary evidence indicative of the respondent’s refusal or omission to ensure the said continuity would have been pertinent in that regard,” said the ruling delivered by Justice Monica Mugenyi. She heard the case with Justice Faustin Ntezilyayo Fakihi Jundu, Audace Ngiye and Charles Oyo Nyawello. “The dictates of fair trial, due process and natural justice would require that all parties to a dispute are heard before a decision in respect thereof is made,” they ruled. Prof Chepkwony has privately sued the Kenya government’s officers and agents at the regional court for allegedly evicting civilians from their homes near Mau Forest “in a cruel, horrifying, degrading, traumatising and inhuman manner” between June and August this year. He told the court that the government had, through the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and its officers, carried out evictions of thousands of residents from the farms adjacent to the Mau Forest Complex, causing serious humanitarian crises and human rights abuses that had adversely affected the government’s responsibility to provide education. Prof Chepkwony said the government had failed to adhere to the principle of good governance and the rule of law as envisaged in the EAC Treaty by evicting the applicants from their homes without due notice and provision of alternative living and learning centres for the pupils.   The govt says new encroachment on one side of the water tower is devastating it. Opposition leader Odinga insists on referendum while Deputy President Ruto opposes it. Who will copy Kenyan politicians’ agility in crafting alliances?