Sabor a Mexico, a restaurant at Two Rivers Mall in Nairobi, prepares dishes from different regions of Mexico, using ingredients familiar to Kenyans such as beans, maize, and tomato salsa. Sabor is located away from the bustle of the main mall, and overlooks a water feature and a children’s play park. The pillars and rear walls are plastered with colourful patterns like those in traditional Mexican pottery. Sabor a Mexico, meaning “taste of Mexico,” opened in August last year, and recently revamped its menu. While waiting for my food to arrive, I nibbled on home-made corn nachos with tomato salsa. The tortilla chicken broth and Mexican meatball soup starters sounded like hearty meals on their own. But for a light starter, I would recommend an ensalada bowl with salads from the bar and Mexican dressing. For the main course, I had chicken tejano with tomato-flavoured arroz rice, and a side of green chillies. Dishes The recipe originates from the Mexican community living in the southern US. The generously portioned dish arrived sizzling hot on an iron skillet; the guacamole and sour cream nicely tempered the spiciness of the meal. I also tried a beef taco, one of the most popular Mexican dishes, stuffed into a crispy maize tortilla with cheese and corn salsa. Sabor makes its own tortillas, which gives them a home-cooked taste. With the corn tacos, you can order one, two or three pieces depending on how hungry you feel. Naturally, the restaurant serves burrito rolls, quesadilla triangles and enchilada wraps with fillings of different meats and vegetables, accompanied by cheese, sauces and dips. There are also fideos noodles, bowls of thick rice noodle soup in a tomato base with pieces of chicken, beef or vegetables. For standard meals, prices range from Ksh600 ($6) to Ksh1,100 ($11). The parilla grills cater for people who like more meat, with options of T-bone steak, pork chops, Mexican grilled steak and honey barbeque chicken cuts. The fiesta platters, priced from Ksh2,800 ($28) to Ksh5,500 ($55), can be shared between five people. These have combinations of chicken, beef, ribs, refried beans, rice and vegetables. The vegetarian options are extensive, with unique ingredients like chipotle quinoa, crispy kale, cornmeal, beans and sweet potato. Healthy ingredients Proprietor Alima Awori says that when she was researching a restaurant concept she found that Kenyans were looking for fresh and healthy ingredients. Sabor’s colourful meals are supplemented with avocado, lettuce, cilantro and lemon, and condiments like the mole sauce, a quintessential ingredient of Mexican cooking. Sabor has an impressive selection of beverages, all ringing with health and vitality. I chose a carrot and ginger juice, a refreshing option, and I hardly noticed it was sugarless.   Their healthy booster juices have distinct ingredients such as kale, green apples, kiwi, parsley, asparagus and chia seeds. I counted 10 different smoothies and 17 milk shakes, including Oreo chocolate and espresso flavours. The desert list is a selection of fruit-based cakes and tarts or chocolate flavoured treats. I ordered churros from the bakery list, one of my favourite sweets. These long, fried dough pastries are sprinkled with cinnamon sugar and served with a caramel dipping sauce. They came with a free scoop of vanilla ice cream that complements the warm, crunchy texture. The restaurant is open all day, starting with a variety of breakfast dishes. Weekends are busy with family diners, but on the weekdays it is peaceful place for a hearty lunch presented with quick service. The owners plan to open more branches in Nairobi next year.   Ugandan officials impounded a Rwandan truck over forged documents claims. Angela Ruhinda is ready to conquer Tanzania’s film industry.