Companies in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania can now move from paying a flat rate on their Internet to paying based on their consumption. Service provider Internet Solutions, formerly Access Kenya, has introduced a consumption-based billing service dubbed IS Open Network that is designed to help companies cut on Internet expenses during downtime. Currently, Internet providers offer a flat-rate scheme to companies in exchange for a fixed allocation of bandwidth. “In the corporate space, clients have been demanding flexibility, where they pay per megabyte consumed and are billed at the end of the month,” Internet Solution’s Richard Hechle told a media briefing in Nairobi. “If you are in the hotel industry and you have a conference, providing extra bandwidth to accommodate the customers during high peak is a complicated process; at the university consumption during school term time differs from that during holidays, but at the moment, you get one bill for every month.” According to analysts, most companies in emerging markets want to consume the Internet as a utility, like electricity and water, where they are only charged for what they use monthly. “This pay-per-use model is cost-effective; Internet users will experience a breathable billing model that grows and shrinks based on the business need and utilisation,” said Loren Bosch, the head of managed services at the launch of the product in Nairobi. The product has also been unveiled in Mozambique, Nigeria and Ghana. Clients have four options to choose from — 20Mbps, 50Mbps, 100Mbps and STM1 – 155Mbps. The flat rate scheme is beneficial to heavy Internet users as margins do not change however much they consume. But experts say that paying per use will force consumers to watch the clock on their Internet consumption while firms could keep consumers and staff from enjoying the Internet’s full benefits thereby suppressing usage. “This arrangement will see companies control the Internet and consumption of social media sites,” IT and service business Serianu chief executive William Makatiani told The EastAfrican. “It will be expensive for those with heavy downloads and as much as it is not revolutionary and as disruptive, it will be fair in the long run, especially if no fixed costs are introduced.”   None appear to be senior rebel officials whose release is required by the peace deal. Congolese men said to be wholesale suppliers in the black market in East Africa.