Nigerian authorities have intensified the crackdown against the Shiites Muslim protesting the imprisonment of their cleric Sheik Ibrahim Zakzaky. Security agencies have launched snap checkpoints in various parts of Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), where at least three lives have been lost in violent confrontations. Soldiers also conducted search operations on virtually all vehicles coming into Abuja. Some FCT residents on Tuesday decided to remain indoors, to safeguard their lives and property. Facing trial Aggrieved Shiites for the third day on Monday stormed the streets as security agents fought them back. Sheik Zakzaky and his wife have been in detention since December 2015 after a clash by their followers with the military in Zaria, Kaduna State, led to the death of more than 300 people. The 65-year-old Zakzaky is currently facing trial in Kaduna for allegedly murdering a soldier during the December 2015 bloody clash in the northern state. The members of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) on Saturday blocked the Kaduna-Abuja major road in Zuba and engaged the troops. Several people were injured and property of yet-to-be established value destroyed. The Commander of the Guards Brigade, Gen U. T. Musa, however, said normalcy had been restored. Defend ourselves Gen Musa warned that the brigade would not tolerate a situation where innocent people were attacked without provocation. The commander said the Shiite group opened fire at the soldiers after they stopped them from passing through a check point and that the security agents had no option but to defend themselves. “They started shooting at us and we had no option but to defend ourselves and that is exactly what we have done. "'We operated as per the Rule of Engagement, so that was what happened,” he said.   Movement in regional capital restricted to contain violence Joint investigation reveals there are only 1.1 million refugees in Uganda. Paul Makonda threatens to arrest people suspected of being homosexuals.