If it were not for the railway, there would be no Nairobi. Enkare nyrobi, as the Maasai called it (the Place of Cool Waters) famously began as a stopover and depot for the Lunatic Line as it was pushed ever westwards towards Lake Victoria. Then it just grew. And the railways still play a vital role in the city’s cultural and social life; not only for the new standard gauge railway that, hopefully, whizzes customers to the Coast and back. One of the city’s most active arts centres, the Dust Depo, is housed in a hall adjoining the national railway museum, off Harambee Avenue. Historic steam engines form a backdrop as the artists work. The Depo is run by the painter Patrick Mukabi, who more than most has mentored generations of young artists. Following his example comes a new studio devoted to giving the next band of artists a hand… Studio Soku, housed in a three-bedroom flat in what used to be the railway workers’ estate — a gated group of lines that is a surprisingly spacious oasis tucked away between a mosque and a cellphone booster mast in South B. Spacious, yes, but it has to be admitted that much of the lawns created in a different, less pressured age, seem now to feature their fair quota of chainless bikes, cars rusting on their axles and abandoned fridges. One of the first-floor flats has been taken over by Studio Soku and turned into a centre where young dreams can be developed, hopes realised and careers nurtured. Soku was started by Jeremiah Sonko and Njogu Kuria (the studio’s name is an amalgam of their names; SOnko and KUria) who were soon joined by Jeffie Magina, a qualified accountant who began painting in 2014 and was previously based at the GoDown arts centre next to Industrial Area prison, a short distance from the studio. The three resident artists are heavy on formal skills like drawing and as a current exhibition demonstrates, discipline pays. Called Listening to my Soul, it is of paintings by Soku’s first intake of 10 young people, who began their mentorship programmes in June after being recruited by word of mouth and social media. Unusually, the four-month programme was open to writers, photographers and musicians, as well as painters and sculptors from the Nairobi area. They had two sessions a week, one day of classes and another for personal work or following up the classes, which included figure drawing, sculpting, framing and stretching canvas and using different media to explore their personal styles. Other artists were invited to give specialist tuition or to share their experiences. Outreach days included sessions with artists at the GoDown, the Brush Tu studio in Buruburu, Mukabi’s Dust Depo, and the Kobo Trust studio at Dagoretti. They also visited exhibitions and learnt how they were set up. Magina, who exploits collage in his own work, commented: “Our space is more of an artists’ community than just a studio. We encourage collaborations and free thinking.” The results, after only four months, are stunning; even allowing that many of the young artists clearly had a lot of talent to begin with. Joyce Kuria and Daisy Buyanzi, who work together under the name Wet Paint, produced a group of photo and paper collages that projected music and culture with imagery that is piercing, faintly disturbing and powerful. Spacesai and Spaced Out engaged with the viewer and left their imprints on the eye. Buyanzi, working alone, produced a series of paintings of trees in banded colours (rather like television test cards) that explored their silent language and many moods, while three drawings of cats, the Yellow Series by Husna Nyathira, were deceptively simple descriptions of the animals’ strength and grace. A first-year architecture student, Kagima Njeri, who joined the programme, has turned in in a couple of fine portraits; one of them his first. Future activities at Soku, as well as continuing the mentorship programme, include art lessons for children and adults and a series of sessions in which practising artists will be invited to share their experiences and take part in open discussions. As art is dropped as an examinable subject from the Kenyan school curriculum, professional artists are rushing to fill the vacuum and keep the flame lit for the next generation. They cannot do it alone. Gallery-goers have a part to play as important as buying work for their walls. Magina said the studio does not ask for money — the resident artists fund the programme themselves — but they do welcome artists’ materials; paper, canvas, pens and paints, brushes, inks and sculptor’s tools. Studio Soku is just one of the small art centres springing up in Nairobi — others include Dust Depo, Kobo and Brush Tu — as well as the more established GoDown, the reorganised Kuona Arts Collective and Shabu Mwangi’s Wajukuu Art Project in the city’s Lunga Lunga slum. In a railway city they are all there to keep the engines fired up… and by giving them materials, you can help to keep our young artists on track.   A new studio starts a mentoring programme for young artists, writers and musicians in an apartment. Ugandan officials impounded a Rwandan truck over forged documents claims. Angela Ruhinda is ready to conquer Tanzania’s film industry.