After 10 years of guiding Rwanda’s foreign policy, Louise Mushikiwabo leaves big shoes to fill for whoever President Paul Kagame will choose. A decision is expected to be announced in the coming days. For the next four years, Ms Mushikiwabo will represent the face of politics of the French speaking bloc, which boasts 58 member states. Back at home, her successor has major diplomatic hurdles to overcome, especially in the region. “Whoever takes up the post of Foreign Affairs minister will have one of the most important jobs in Rwanda. Diplomacy is a skill, and Louise Mushikiwabo has demonstrated that skill in the best way possible for the advancement of Rwandan politics,” Buchanan Ismael, a senior lecturer of political science at the University of Rwanda told The EastAfrican. “She has taken Rwanda to the global platform and improved relations with France, not forgetting that President Kagame is an exemplary leader in the reformation of the African Union.” Sure win The win for Ms Mushikiwabo was almost certain when her only rival Michaëlle Jean from Canada withdrew her candidacy on Tuesday. Besides the Canadian central government, Quebec, a city in Canada but also with a voting right among nations, announced it would back the Rwandan. Ms Mushikiwabo was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs in 2009. She made significant contributions during Rwanda’s turn at the UN Security Council between 2013 and 2014 in aspects such as conflict resolution. She was also involved in the ongoing African Union reforms. In the region, Ms Mushikiwabo has faced many challenges with Uganda — Rwanda’s long time political and major trading ally — involved in a constant war of words that has led to frosty relations between the neighbours. President Kagame’s government has constantly complained that Kampala security and intelligence agencies are conducting a witch-hunt targeting Rwandans living in Uganda, and also accused Uganda of harbouring some fugitives hostile to Rwanda. Uganda has in turn accused Rwanda of infiltrating its security agencies and conducting illegal deportations of individuals from Uganda to Rwanda. On the other border, Rwanda and Burundi have been trading accusations over political influence and the treatment of refugees.   Foreign Minister unanimously endorsed by members after intense lobbying Assassination attempt and renewed ethnic clashes remain major challenges. Tanzanian tycoon runs multibillion-dollar business established by his father.