Arguably, an ordeal suffered by an annoyingly good-looking and depressingly successful businessman should have aroused a level of mean satisfaction in the general populace, especially that of a poor country. I can repeat some of the descriptors here for you: Youngest billionaire, former Member of Parliament, Simba Sports Club patron whose abduction garnered almost-competent coverage by no less than the Times of London among other international news outlets. We humans love few things more than the tribulations of those who are better off than us. But no, quite the opposite happened. An entire city went into depression when Mo Dewji disappeared on a weekday morning, plucked from his gym by unknown assailants. Those who called for his kidnapping to be investigated and for his return cannot be easily categorised by income, ethnicity, gender, religion, age, or any other characteristic including political party. Turns out, this was a mwenzetu thing, a cosa nostra, a “one of us” matter and everyone pitched into the public outcry. Like all the other millions of Bongolanders who are happy to see Mo come back to his family and friends, there are so very many questions that are running through my mind. I am one of the many minions of the city who only knows him from his public-relations outputs and whatever coverage the media gave him. Honestly, of all the big names who enjoy the limelight, at least he brought some fun to the endeavour. Cheerful dandler of babies, newbie philanthropist, dude-about-town and guy couldn’t keep his shirt on at a public sporting event even if you begged him to. Aside from all that he seemed pretty normal, which is actually a Tanzanian compliment. That is why watching the press conference immediately after he was found was an unexpectedly difficult part of the entire debacle of his kidnapping and subsequent release. He stood with over a week’s growth of hair on his chin, a shadow of himself in shorts and a T-shirt, giving thanks for his safe return with a voice that sounded like it was being dredged up from the soles of his feet. Standing next to policemen with their skin gleaming healthily in the limelight, their generous bellies filling out their shirts, their blinding smiles and their booming tones as if we can’t hear them perfectly well through the high-tech recording devices that journalists use, Mo Dewji looked small, exhausted and in need of shelter. It has pained us to see him thus, and as addicted as we are to cutting-edge news and gossip and intrusion into the personal lives of our local celebrities, there seems to be a general consensus that his privacy and that of his family will be respected. As we waited out the days and scrutinised every piece of information about his kidnapping, we also took the opportunity to raise questions concerning all the others who have been attacked or disappeared, some of whose whereabouts are unknown to this day. We may never find out anything of substance about who these frequently occurring “unknown assailants” are, but it looks like the overall effect has been to unite us into a members of a group. Welcome back Mo. Be well. Elsie Eyakuze is a consultant and blogger for The Mikocheni Report. E-mail: elsieeyakuze@gmail.com   Joint investigation reveals there are only 1.1 million refugees in Uganda. Paul Makonda threatens to arrest people suspected of being homosexuals.