Kenya’s Capital Markets Authority wants the National Treasury to broker a deal that could unlock a dispute over the compensation of bondholders of two collapsed banks. The CMA approved bond issues by Chase Bank and Imperial Bank in 2015. However, the banks collapsed about a year later with billions of dollars’ worth of bondholders’ funds, raising questions over the authority’s application of due diligence. Now, with the investors demanding their money and the corporate bond market slowing down, the regulator is seeking solutions, including changing the law to secure investors’ interests. The EastAfrican has learnt that the authority wrote to the Treasury requesting its intervention. “We have recommended as part of the 2018/2019 submissions to the National Treasury to convene a meeting comprising four parties including the National Treasury, Central Bank of Kenya, Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) and CMA to come up with a solution to this stalemate,” said Luke Ombara, the CMA director in-charge of regulatory policy and strategy. The CMA is now seeking a review of the KDIC Act to accord bondholders priority for compensation, like depositors, in case a bank collapses. The regulator also wants KDIC to treat custodial accounts as separate accounts and not a single account. “These are the things we want the policy-makers to look at critically because they are undermining the capacity of banks to raise funds through bond issues,” said Paul Muthaura, chief executive of CMA. However, KDIC says that its duty is to compensate depositors of failed financial institutions, and that bondholders who currently rank the lowest on the compensation list will be treated just like any other creditors. “These bonds are not insured with us. Bondholders rank as unsecured creditors and they are paid when the business is wound up just like any other creditors, and only if there are any assets to be realised,” said Mohamud Mohamud, KDIC chief executive. KDIC insures depositors up to a maximum of Ksh100,000 ($1,000) per depositor, although there are discussions to raise the amount to Ksh500,000 ($5,000). Kenyan bondholders cannot be compensated through CMA’s Investor Compensation Fund as the fund only takes care of stockmarket investors who fall victim to distressed brokerage firms. These investors are compensated up to a maximum of Ksh50,000 ($500). CMA gave a clean bill of health for investors to buy Ksh10 billion ($100 million) worth of bonds issued by Chase Bank in June 2015, and Ksh2 billion ($20 million) worth of bonds issued by Imperial Bank in August the same year. However, Imperial Bank was placed under receivership two months later, and Chase Bank followed 10 months later in April 2016. The lenders were put under receivership due to poor corporate governance and financial challenges.   They have shifted to risk-free government bonds, where returns are guaranteed. Sources say Kigali and Kampala have removed individuals from some posts to allow a thawing of Kenya is banking on KQ to sell tourism and itself as a commercial destination.